<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
	<head>
		<title>Fallen_Int_EPUB</title>
		<link href="css/Dummy_EPUB_idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
	</head>
	<body id="Dummy_Int_EPUB" xml:lang="en-US">
		<div class="Basic-Text-Frame">
		<h2 class="chapnum">{ <span>1</span> }</h2>
			<h1 id="toc_marker-1" class="chaptitle">Rugged Cheddar and Thought-Prayers</h1>
			<h3 class="chapsub"><span>11</span>:<span>20</span> a.m., July <span>22</span>, <span>2008</span></h3>

			<p class="noind"><span class="char-style-override-1">R</span><span>ugged cheddar.</span><em><span> </span></em><span>This </span>is what I am thinking about when <br />&#9;my husband, Simon, falls. I have been thinking about <br />&#9;cheese, and about Simon, on and off all morning. The deli counter at the grocery store has set out samples of a particularly good aged cheddar, and as a small square dissolves on my tongue, the crunch of tiny lactic acid crystals sweetening the salty, nippy kick, I decide to blow our weekly budget and buy a block. Simon will love it. If a man could claim a cheese of his own, rugged cheddar would belong to him. Over the years we have had disagreements about cheese consumption. I have had occasion, during particularly tight financial times, to assert that cheese is a <em>meal</em> item. It is not a snack. I have wailed as I watched Simon slice into thick slabs and devour what I considered two nights’ worth of dinner material in an attempt to restabilize a late-afternoon dip in blood sugar. But thankfully, those times have passed. Although we still live paycheck to paycheck, there is enough buffer room in our budget to accommodate a totally superfluous block of cheese.</p>
			<p class="ind">I will cut it up and serve it with a plate of red peppers, and open a bottle of wine. Even though there is no special occasion to mark, I will surprise Simon with a date-night dinner. He was tired this morning when he woke, and achy and anxious about the coming weekend. Eli, our sixteen-year-old son, is away at soccer camp, and we have only just made it through a long and fractious winter. Damp and gray, the cold months lingered deep into spring, and the grind of extra-long work days, pressing deadlines, and a sense of stalled forward motion wore us both down. There is need, and now some time, for a few spontaneous date nights.</p>
			<p class="ind">Earlier this morning I opted to ignore the stack of editing work piled beside my computer and instead took an early-morning yoga class, my first in over a year. After yoga, I moved through a list of chores at a meditative pace, as if this were my full-time job, work to take pride and pleasure in instead of something usually squeezed in at the end of a long day, tasks turned unpleasant by the gnawing sense that there is never enough time to get things fully done. Because I know how tired Simon is, how deserving of a break, the leisurely pace at which my day unfolds is a guilty pleasure.</p>
			<p class="ind">Still, the sun’s warmth creates space, opening up the hours, and I soften into a state of happy anticipation. It’s too hot to eat a heavy meal, so the dinner I plan takes the shape of a table laden with appetizers: a dish each of Kalamata olives and marinated artichokes, sliced avocado, cantaloupe, and garden-fresh greens. A warm baguette. I’ll make a pot of soup for a main course—a minestrone, perhaps. Or a smooth tomato and basil, Simon’s favorite. It will be a meal of simple luxuries, one to savor long into the late sunset of a summer evening. This is what I am thinking: rugged cheddar, a bottle of red wine, and an evening alone with Simon. It is <span>11</span>:<span>20</span> a.m., and I am in my car driving home to Halfmoon Bay.</p>
			<p class="ind">Back at home, as I unpack the groceries, the warm blue buzz of summer air is fractured by a blistering series of sirens: ambulance, police car. Another police car? It must be a serious accident. In a community as small as Halfmoon Bay, it is likely that even if you don’t know the person in the ambulance, you know someone who knows them. As I always do, I send out a thought-prayer of strength and safety to whomever the ambulance is intended for.</p>
			<p class="ind"><em>Be safe.</em></p>
			<p class="ind"><em>Be strong.</em></p>
			<p class="ind">There is a moment of silence in the wake of the sirens’ keening trill, but as I return to my average, if exceptionally leisurely and pleasurable, Tuesday, everyday noises resume: the frantic chatter of insects, the lush and liquid warble of birdsong, kids shouting, a chainsaw’s electric purr somewhere in the distance. I continue to catch up on household chores. I attend to the recycling, the pileup of dirty clothes, the grimy bathroom. I fill a vase with fresh lavender and a single blood-red rose and place it on the bedside table in our bedroom, then change into my dirt-streaked gardening shirt in preparation for starting some much-needed yard work. I am fitting clean sheets onto the bed before heading outside when there is a knock at my kitchen door.</p>
			<p class="ind">The knock surprises me. The dog starts barking like a maniac, and I abandon the fourth fitted bedsheet corner to answer the door. Framed by the kitchen window is the distinctive profile of our friend Ryan: his long, dark hair pulled into a tight bun at the nape of his neck, his Daliesque mustache in a particularly stiff twist.</p>
			<p class="ind">“Come on in,” I shout as I reach for the kettle. Simon and Ryan are building a house down the road on a large waterfront property, working longer hours than usual to complete as much of the project as possible by the end of this week. I fill the kettle </p>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
