<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-4">CHAPTER 2</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">The Traveling Base Camp</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>AMUR ADONISES ARE</small> the first flowers to bloom when spring comes to Ussuri. A clus- ter pops up through the melting snow in sunny spots. Wildflowers follow the Amur Adonises, carefully pushing up their buds, and little spring blossoms of red, yellow, and purple grow in small colonies like colorful landmasses on a world map. The forest turns into an endless garden of wildflowers. Around this time, squirrels and chipmunks emerge from their winter naps. Badgers wander about looking for wild plants to dig up so they can feast on the bulb roots. Asian black bears come out for a walk with their cubs, who were born over the winter. Mother bears lift rocks to find ants and caterpillars for their cubs to eat, and the cubs wrestle in the velvety green fields and break their winter fast by feasting on new leaves. Wild boars roam in groups, digging the fertile soil for fat slugs and worms. The boar herds can be counted on to turn the wildflowers into a chaotic mess, as if a dinosaur had rampaged through.</p>

    <p class="ind">My long winter stakeout had finally ended, and I was to shift gears and start tracking tigers to map their territories and routes. From May through September, I tracked the tigers’ droppings in the forest and compiled a map of their migration routes to decide the best locations for my next stakeout. Then I spent October through April of the following year in my hideout waiting for the tigers. Half the year was spent on field expeditions and the other half on stakeouts, two ways of studying nature.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>FIELD EXPEDITIONS ARE</small> essential to the success of a stakeout. Through field expeditions, we pick up the various details that will determine where, when, and how in the vast, deep wild we should conduct our stakeouts. By following the traces of an elusive animal in our summer field research, we prepare for winter field research: staying in one spot until our subjects reveal themselves.</p>

    <p class="ind">The area where we observe wild tigers is Lazovsky, southeast of Ussuri, home to the Lazovsky Nature Reserve. Nature reserves in Russia are called <em>zapovedniks</em>, and they have the strictest regulations of all environmental conservation areas in the country. No one is allowed in zapovedniks without permission, and all plants, animals, and minerals in the reserves are protected rigorously. So when I think of the word “zapovednik,” the first thing that comes to mind is “authorized personnel only.” Of course, even authorized personnel must receive clearance each time to get in. It would be impossible to fence in the vast area, but trespassing is just as prohibited as on privately owned land.</p>

    <p class="ind">Rangers, the law enforcement authorities of the woods, can arrest trespassers and open fire if they flee and can interrogate and indict perpetrators. It’s illegal to enter a zapovednik, and those who poach, fish, harvest, or log in the resserves are subject to heavy punishment. Because of these strict regulations, wild tigers that have almost completely vanished from Korea and Manchuria have been able to maintain a minimum viable population (the minimum population required for a species to survive without compromising genetic or ecological diversity and health), albeit precariously, in Ussuri.</p>

    <p class="ind">There are 101 nature reserves in Russia, making up 1.6 percent of all Russian territory. Three of these nature reserves located in Ussuri near the Tumen River are home to wild tigers. The smallest is the Ussuri Nature Reserve, the second-largest the Lazovsky Nature Reserve, and the largest the Sikhote-Alin Nature Reserve. Zov Tigra National Park (812 square kilometers), although not a zapovednik, was recently established to protect wild tigers.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Ussuri Nature Reserve is 578 square kilometers. Only four or five tigers live there because the area is not very large and it is cut off from the Sikhote-Alin Range. Most of these tigers have not made stable homes of the nature reserve, but lead nomadic lives on the outskirts. In reality, only Sikhote-Alin and Lazovsky are real homes for tigers.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Sikhote-Alin Nature Reserve is located in the middle of the Sikhote-Alin Mountain range that runs along the eastern coast of Ussuri. It was the first nature reserve established to protect tigers, and at 4,014 square kilometers, the largest. It’s home to between twenty and twenty-five wild tigers.</p>

    <p class="ind">Lazovsky Nature Reserve, on the other hand, is located south of the Sikhote-Alin Mountains. The nature reserve itself is 1,210 square kilometers, but the entire expanse of the Lazovsky District, including the outskirts where tigers also live, is about 4,700 square kilometers. Between eight to twelve wild tigers live in the Lazovsky Nature Reserve and its outlying areas. Bloody Mary was one of them.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>WHETHER WE’RE ON</small> a field expedition or stakeout, we always begin at the base camp. Base camps are generally set up in a village or a mountain lodge near the research area. When we are conducting research in many different areas, we set up shop somewhere in the middle.</p>

    <p class="ind">On this excursion we were studying Bloody Mary, whose territory spanned from the southeastern coast of Lazovsky to farther inland, so our base camp was located in the southernmost Lazovsky city of Kievka, seventy kilometers away from downtown Lazo. Since before recorded history, this part of Ussuri has been populated by the Udege and Nanai peoples. They are the descendants of northern nomadic tribes that shared linguistic and ethnic roots with the Manchu. The Udege were hunters who dwelled mainly in the forest and opted for a nomadic life instead of building villages. They moved in clans and followed game all over Ussuri. The Nanai, on the other hand, built riverine villages, hunting in the winter and fishing in the summer, and were nicknamed “fish skin people” because they made fish skin clothes and shoes. Part of the Ussuri ecosystem, they have hunted and fished for generations here.</p>

    <p class="ind">This village of about a hundred households was once occupied by native Ussuri peoples, but was taken over by Ukrainians from Kiev in the nineteenth century, who changed its name to Kievka. The native Ussuri population has been nearly obliterated. Only a few families live in the village of Mayak about fifteen kilometers outside Kievka. Most of the villagers there make a living as medicinal root gatherers.</p>

    <p class="ind">Our base camp at Kievka was a small wood cabin. It had a spacious entryway, one large room, one small room, and a kitchen through the entryway door. A wood stove was built into the wall where the three rooms met, distributing heat evenly among them. The cabin received a lot of light in the morning through its many windows. It was our home and command center. Here, we collected data, fixed our equipment, and put together supplies to distribute to our stakeout posts. We recharged ourselves as well as our equipment batteries at the base camp. When I returned to the base camp from a long stakeout or camping in the woods, this cabin felt like home.</p>

    <p class="ind">We also had an expedition base camp. Ussuri tigers lead very itinerant lives. One or two hundred kilometers is nothing to them. Since they cover such vast distances, we had to have a base camp we could move around. So we bought a secondhand four-wheel-drive truck from the Russian military and named it “the Ural.” It guzzled gasoline but was as sturdy as the Ural Mountains.</p>

    <p class="ind">We pulled the truck bed apart and installed a four-meter steel container called a <em>kun</em>. Stefanovich and Valosia, the two forest rangers who assisted me with our expedition, were thrilled with the project. It’s very exciting for people like us, who live in the woods, to have a traveling cabin. We installed a four-person bunk bed, a wood stove, and lighting fixtures in the kun. Once we added a chimney on the roof for the wood stove and cut out windows on either side of the container, we had ourselves a respectable traveling base camp. Stefanovich was assigned the task of driving and maintaining the Ural.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once we were out in the woods in the Ural, the survey usually went on for about a month. We searched the forest for tiger pugmarks by day and returned to the Ural to sleep at night. When we camped for longer periods, the Ural dropped us off on one side of the mountain and waited for us at a designated spot on the other side. The expedition traveled over the mountain on foot, researching during the day and pitching camp at night. We rejoined the Ural when our journey over the mountain was complete.</p>

    <p class="ind">Collecting data in the field, we were often caught in thunderstorms or extremely cold weather. On such days, it was a comfort to have the Ural with us. When we crawled into the kun and fired up the stove, it became as warm as a hearth inside. We hung our wet clothes to dry, made food, drank vodka, and rested up for the night. The cramped space inside the kun seemed so cozy on such occasions. After a month of field research, we returned to our base camp in the village. We recharged for a week or two and then set out in the Ural again for another part of the forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Ural was a Russian military truck, but even it couldn’t avoid breaking down when we drove it through the rugged mountain terrain. There are no service stations in the mountains, so if you’re not confident you can fix a broken car, you don’t dare make that drive. But like all Russian drivers, Stefanovich and Valosia were not only great drivers but also expert mechanics. Even when their cars broke down in the village, they did the repairs themselves. They would find a car that was too worn for use, park it on one side of the yard, and take parts from it to fix their cars. Nothing went to waste. They hoarded even the smallest bits to reuse later. Frankly, they were too poor to even afford new car parts. This made them resourceful mechanics.</p>

    <p class="ind">One time, the Ural’s engine spurted a puff of white smoke and stopped on the way up a mountain path. We opened the hood to find the fan belt had snapped and half the coolant had evaporated. I was worried because we didn’t have a spare fan belt, but I had faith that Stefanovich and Valosia would think of something. And I was right. Stefanovich took a look around the area as if it were no big deal and asked me for my camera. I surrendered my camera to him, not knowing what he was up to. He undid the camera strap and fashioned it into a fan belt with some fishing wire. He had a terrific fan belt in no time. He fetched some clean water from a nearby stream to refill the radiator and installed the new fan belt. The Ural let out a long blast as it drove on, as tough as ever. Thanks to their excellent driving and knowledge of car mechanics, the Ural carried out its mission no matter how far we traveled in pursuit of the Ussuri tigers.</p>

   
  </body>
</html>