<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
  
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-5">CHAPTER 3</h1>


    <h1 class="chaptit">The Spirit of the Sikhote-Alin</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>WE SET OUT</small> from the base camp in the Ural. About fifteen kilometers north along the new road to downtown Lazo, we came upon a small forest path leading to the Sukhoi Brook. Valosia and I picked up our backpacks and hopped off the Ural, which turned around and drove back the way we had come, leaving a cloud of dust on the unpaved road in its wake.</p>

    <p class="ind">We had found traces of Bloody Mary and her cubs a few times in the past, but no one had ever seen her. One would think the medicinal root gatherers who went into the forest every day might have run into her, but her characteristic cautiousness had kept her hidden. We asked people living in the villages near Bloody Mary’s territory if they had spotted pugmarks of tiger cubs, and discovered that Bloody Mary had had two litters. She’d given birth to two cubs seven years earlier that she’d safely brought up to adulthood, followed by a large litter of four cubs four years earlier. She’d lost one cub in the process, but there were signs the remaining three cubs had stayed close to her until they left her care.</p>

    <p class="ind">A female Ussuri tiger first has cubs when she is three years old. The cubs are raised for two to two and a half years before they leave their mother’s care. Based on this, we conjectured that Bloody Mary was a seasoned tiger of around ten years old. According to our calculations, she was out there raising her third litter, assuming she’d mated. We were curious as to whether she had had cubs, and if so, how many. The focus of our research that year was Bloody Mary. We imagined it would be difficult to see her in the flesh, but we planned to follow her traces, study them, and get as much information on her as possible.</p>

    <p class="ind">We intended to spend the month of May collecting data along Sukhoi Brook and into the upper reaches of Mizinets River. We would recharge for two weeks after that and then resume our expedition along Santago Valley to Siaochinko, then down the coastal mountains from Tachinko to Mayak Village in August. We would spend September building stakeout trenches based on the data we’d collected, then head into our long six-month stakeout from October to March the following year.</p>

    <p class="ind">The leaves on the trees were starting to unfurl. Myriad shades of green gave the forest new dimensions. Nut pine needles were the deep blue of the ocean, while the larch colony was the color of a light blue-green coral reef. The new leaves on the maple trees were yellow-green, and the oak colony was light green. The willow and poplar leaves were icy blue with a hint of milky white. The white base of the birch had shed its protective winter layer. I peeled off strips of bark so white I thought my fingers would turn white from touching it. The new bark, infused with blue, grew beneath the old.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Udege and Nanai share an inextricable bond with birches and willows. In the spring, traditionally, they scraped off the inner bark of birches and mixed it with grain to steam and eat, and picked the chaga mushrooms that grow on the sap of birches in the autumn to extract oil, make wine, and boil tea. They chopped down birch trees to build their houses and make firewood, and peeled off the dried bark to use as tinder or make household paraphernalia such as baskets and cribs. Willows were used to make dog sleds and fishing poles, and the bark was dried to make ropes. They brewed the willow bark, now the well-known raw material of aspirin, and drank the tea to soothe their aches.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Udege and Nanai still believe that the spirit of a person comes from trees and when one’s time in this world is up, men’s spirits return to willows and women’s to birches. They believe that the trees go through a period of rest and are reborn as new spirits. And so they see this world as a place where spirits pass through eternal cycles, where there is no death or sadness. To the Udege and Nanai, everything in the world is a living thing that gives and receives energy, and that energy is temporarily borrowed from nature and must be returned when the time comes—life and death are repetitions of these cycles and a circulation of energy.</p>

    <p class="ind">The indigenous people of Ussuri who lived by the river must have felt a close bond with willows, and the vast expanse of birches would have been a friendly sight to those who lived in the forest. They were born of trees, lived among them, and returned to them. So they considered the forest part of their ancestry and history and referred to themselves as Udege, “the people of the forest,” and Nanai, “the people of the earth.”</p>

    <p class="ind">We climbed a small ridge and saw the Sikhote-Alin Range in the distance. Far north along the green ridge was what the Ussuri call Black Mountain (officially known as Mount Chyornaya). Black Mountain is rockier toward the top, so little grows around the summit except for a few coniferous trees and shrubbery. The dense forest in the lower altitudes, on the other hand, is vibrant with life, and the Ussuri call it the Bright Forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">Two hundred kilometers to the north and south of Black Mountain lie treacherous mountain terrains. The Udege refer to these as the Dragon Spine. Looking down from the peak, one can see the imposing boulders that form the ridge of Black Mountain. The ridge resembles an enormous dragon that has died and left its strong, coarse spine after its flesh and skin have turned to dust and blown away. The plunging, beautiful valleys of Koropad lie to the northeast of the Dragon Spine with the Bright Forest at their feet; to the southwest is the top of America Valley, which flows down from Black Mountain. Beyond that, Santago Valley (Udege for “third largest valley,” which it is in Lazovsky, after America Valley and Koropad) unfolds like a dream. Santago Valley and the area to its south formed Bloody Mary’s territory.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Lazovsky District maintains a carrying capacity of about ten wild tigers. They travel around the nature reserve and its outlying areas, claiming the 4,700-square- kilometer expanse as their home. The tigers’ territories are divided along Black Mountain in central Lazovsky. During our expedition, it was difficult to tell exactly where the boundaries were, but the area was roughly divided into four quarters, each occupied by one female tiger. The area west of Black Mountain belonged to a tiger in her prime, while the northwest held an elderly tiger, the northeast a Koropad tiger, and the south Bloody Mary. Each tiger had a territory of about 500 square kilometers. The territory of male tigers is about four times that of female tigers.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary’s territory, which spanned from the southeastern coast of Lazovsky to beyond the Dragon Spine, was over 500 square kilometers. Collecting data in Bloody Mary’s territory took a long time because the research perimeter was vast and the terrain forbidding. Also, the feeding patterns and migration of the ungulates—deer, boars, and other hooved animals that tigers like to prey on—varied each year, which made it difficult to pinpoint Bloody Mary’s favorite routes and haunts.</p>

    <p class="ind">But there were certain areas that she was sure to visit often—the territorial borders. Tigers are very competitive and protective when it comes to territory and do not take kindly to trespassers. A female tiger’s territory doubles as her home, where she gives birth to and raises her cubs, and her hunting grounds, where she must find enough food for her young. If female tigers happen across a trespassing tiger, they get into a fierce brawl. But most tigers make sure they never run into each other by taking precautions like going on regular border patrols and maintaining territorial markings that serve as warning signs. They dig holes and leave droppings that contain their own unique chemical scent markers or mark large trees by engraving long vertical claw marks on the trunks. They also rub their necks against the base of tree trunks to leave clumps of their fur or spray the trees with pungent scents.</p>

    <p class="ind">These territorial markers are how tigers make their presence known. For male tigers and their families, it’s a means of communication. For rivals of the same sex, these are warning signs. Around Black Mountain where the territories met, the four female tigers were always waging fierce psychological warfare.</p>

    <p class="ind">There were four or five other female tigers in this region, but they were young—independent but inexperienced. They wandered from area to area with no established territory of their own or had been pushed out to the edges of the nature reserve. Luckily for the young female tigers, most of them were the offspring of the four females who had settled Lazovsky, so they could skulk around the edges of their mothers’ territories unharmed. Young male tigers, on the other hand, faced a greater challenge. They had to avoid the Great King, the largest and strongest male in Lazovsky. Young male tigers ended up wandering all over Lazovsky or were chased to the outskirts while the Great King mated with the four female tigers and reigned over all of their territories.</p>

    <p class="ind">Since ancient times, the native Ussuri have referred to the strongest male in its prime as the Great King. Siberian tigers’ stripes are faint and thin when they are cubs, but grow thicker and more distinct as they reach adulthood. Once they are fully grown, a vivid pattern that resembles the Chinese character 王 (king) appears on their foreheads and 大 (great) on the scruffs of their necks. Unlike tigers in tropical regions that have stripes as thin and sharp as if they were painted on with blades, Siberian tigers have uniquely thick, simple stripes. Such patterns are pronounced on male tigers that are significantly larger than female tigers, especially on the largest and strongest male.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE UDEGE AND NANAI</small> are animists; that is, they believe that everything on earth possesses a spirit. They are the last inheritors of the religion and cosmology of the Tungusic people, an ethnic group that inhabits eastern Siberia and Manchuria and that includes the Manchu ethnic minority in China. They believe the world is divided into the upperworld, middleworld, and underworld. The upperworld is the realm of the sky where the great spirits live, the middleworld is the realm of the earth occupied by humans and spirits of nature, and the underworld is the realm below where the spirits of the dead dwell. The three worlds are connected by the Engzekit River, which is rather like the River Styx in Greek mythology.</p>

    <p class="ind">The god of gods, Enduri, and the other great spirits live in the upperworld. Enduri governs the balance between the realm of the sky and the realm of the earth where humans live. To maintain this balance, Enduri battles evil such as cold and lightning and sends the great spirits of water and forest to the middleworld as his messengers.</p>

    <p class="ind">Temu is the great spirit of water. The sea and rivers are his responsibility. To carry out his duties, Temu also sends messengers. One of those is the kaluga, a sturgeon that swims up the Amur River from the Sea of Okhotsk each May. Kalugas are huge, over five meters long and weighing easily over five hundred kilograms. The Nanai who live by the Amur River fish the kaluga, but out of respect, they do not kill more kalugas than necessary. They are especially careful not to overfish female kalugas carrying eggs, and they perform a ritual offering to atone and appease the spirit of a dead kaluga.</p>

    <p class="ind">The middleworld is the realm of the earth, where nature and humans live. Nature is a being that possesses mystical powers, and all things in nature have their own spirits. The spirits, such as those of water, fire, wind, rock, and fish, take the form of animals. This animist philosophy is deeply entrenched in the Udege and Nanai way of life.</p>

    <p class="ind">Amba is the god of the forest, whom Enduri sends to the middleworld to preserve the balance between humans and nature and to keep the cycle of energy flowing. Amba communicates with all the spirits of the forest and shares energy with humans. The Udege and Nanai worship Amba as the god of the forest. Udege for “the strongest one,” Amba refers to the tiger who rules the Ussuri forest. The strongest of the strong is the Great King.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Sikhote-Alin, where the Great Kings live, has been home and spiritual stronghold for generations of native Ussuri. They call it Kunka Kyamani, or “sleeping spirit.” One day, an Udege from Lazovsky was journeying through Kunka Kyamani when he came across an enormous male tiger. Since then, the Udege have called this tiger Kunka Kyamani Khajain, or just Khajain for short. Khajain is the current Great King of Lazovsky—the spirit of Sikhote-Alin.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Great King usually mates with four or five females. On average, he maintains an area of around 2,000 square kilometers, and the circumference of his territory is about 200 kilometers. But no one knows just how big his territory really is. We cannot know if Khajain has claim over all the 4,700 square kilometers of Lazovsky as Kori, the Great King before him, did, or if he also roams farther north to the Chuguyevka region, as Kuchi Mapa, Kori’s predecessor, did. Kuchi Mapa traveled 400 kilometers from southern Lazovsky to northern Chuguyevka, and a Great King in the Khabarovsk region was once spotted at Lake Baikal, 2,000 kilometers away. Another Great King was seen in Yakut, in central Siberia, 2,500 kilometers away from his territory. I call these far-traveling tigers “Gwanggaeto tigers,” after Gwanggaeto the Great, a Korean monarch from the fourth century famous for his territorial expansion. One can never know for sure how far the territories of Gwanggaeto tigers extend. Perhaps their boundless ambition renders them fearless and adventurous. It is a characteristic one only sees in the Great Kings.</p>

   

  
  </body>
</html>