<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-7">CHAPTER 4</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Fishing Tiger</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE SMELL OF</small> pine nuts became more intense the farther we climbed along the ridge. Before long, a forest of nut pines came into view. Every new branch was adorned with new buds that made the forest vibrant with color. The red, musty pine nut pollen, a deeper hue of red than pine pollen, flew at me in the wind. The pollen fertilized the purple pine flowers, which bore little pine nuts that ripened in the autumn over a year later. This meant the golf ball–sized pinecones had been fertilized the previous year. They would ripen in the fall and become a food source for ungulates in the winter.</p>

    <p class="ind">I counted three or four pinecones on each branch. Some branches had five or six. The nut pines had had a good year. It was important that I note the yield on the nut pine trees, oaks, and wild walnut trees as I conducted my field research. Ungulates have no trouble roaming the woods in search of food between spring and fall, but must resort to scavenging these areas in the winter for pine nuts, acorns, and walnuts buried under the snow. Tigers follow the tracks of the ungulates to these areas. The food yield in different regions is a good basis for choosing hideout spots.</p>

    <p class="ind">It doesn’t matter, however, how much fruit the nut pines or oaks bear if they’re near villages. In the fall, the poor village people come to pick pine nuts and gather acorns. So it’s important to find places, such as Ussusan, that have plentiful food but are difficult for people to reach. In the fall, we stay in places like this for a long time to research them. If we find tiger tracks to boot, they become definite stakeout spots.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Entrance to west slope of Ussusan. Fifteen hectares of nut pines. Over three pinecones per branch. Tracks and droppings of unidentified tiger a month later.”</p>

    <p class="ind">These snippets of information come together to create a tiger eco-map, which typically includes the following information: traces of tigers (pugmarks, droppings, claw marks, and the identity of the tiger as deduced through the evidence), traces of tiger hunts (prey, time and place of hunt, where the prey was eaten), traces of ungulates (the species and population of ungulates that traveled through an area, migration routes, and their purpose of visit), and food yield (the location and size of oak, nut pine, and wild walnut trees; how much fruit they bore that year).</p>

    <p class="ind">Once the eco-map is ready, we can predict to some extent which areas the tigers frequent and which paths they like to take. Based on this information, we decide stakeout spots for the winter and make a more detailed eco-map of the areas we have chosen. The detailed eco-maps contain specific routes that tigers and ungulates take, which helps us decide the precise location of our stakeout bunkers, camera angles, and the background that the cameras will capture.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>WE WALKED ALONG</small> Deer River. It was the dry season, and the water level was low. The river was about four or five meters wide where the current was moving and seven to eight meters wide in the swamp where the water slowed. At the river bend, a large nut pine uprooted during the flood had made a natural bridge. Tigers and humans alike use these log bridges to cross the river.</p>

    <p class="ind">Halfway across, I sat on the log and looked down into the water. Spotted fish flapped their fins in every shallow where the current was gentle. The Manchurian trout were in the middle of spawning season. In Ussuri, they spawn between April and May when the river begins to dry. It’s so hard to find Manchurian trout in Korea that their habitats are designated Natural Monuments, but they thrive in Ussuri, as far as the eye can see.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Manchurian trout gently waved their tail fins to and from as they swam against the current. The propulsion of the fins and the force of the current were in perfect balance, so the trout either held against the current in the same spot or slowly made their way upstream. Black dots and broad red vertical stripes ran down the length of their bodies, and their gills were iridescent with a hint of green. The beautifully decorated males surveyed the situation in the water. If a female approached, the male would greet her and escort her back to a safe spot. If a male approached, it would dart at him to chase him away. The trout disappeared and materialized again as they climbed back and forth over the clear, endless ripples. Just as one cannot move against the flow of time, the trout eventually stopped swimming against the current, rode the river down to where they’d begun, and started climbing back up again.</p>

    <p class="ind">I crossed the log bridge and carefully put down my backpack on the sandbank. Thanks to the long march through the forest, I was sweating as if it were already summer. I took off my shoes and carefully waded into the water, and the Manchurian trout swam away. The riverbed was a mix of sand and small pebbles, ideal for making nests and laying eggs. Every spawning ground was full of yellow eggs.</p>

    <p class="ind">The water came up to my knees, and the current was neither fast nor slow. I waded in a little deeper. Even at the deepest part, the water came up only to my waist. I approached, clawing at the water, and the fish panicked and scattered instantly. They hid under crimson leaves on the riverbed or under rocks. The water was so cold, my calves started to ache. I washed the sweat off my face and waded out.</p>

    <p class="ind">Just as I was about to set foot on the riverbank, I froze. There was a pugmark on the ground. They say people are often blind to things right under their noses, and here I was, about to step in a pugmark. I couldn’t decipher the exact size of the paw because the pugmark was printed in soft sand, but it must have been made recently, since the outline was still clear.</p>

    <p class="ind">My heart skipped a beat. I followed the tracks and saw what I hadn’t noticed before. Tracks were everywhere. The little strip of sandbank that led upstream was dizzying with tracks. Traces of tigers running, wrestling each other, and lying around. And it wasn’t just one tiger. At least three or four tigers had rested and played here.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers are solitary animals that don’t enjoy the company of other tigers, yet here was proof that a group of them had frolicked on the sandbank by this clear river. My heart beat wildly. The river lay at the center of Bloody Mary’s territory, which meant there was a good chance that the tigers were Bloody Mary’s third litter. They weren’t cubs anymore, but nearly fully grown tigers.</p>

    <p class="ind">And then I saw something strange on the ground. Fish tails were strewn about in the grass at the edge of the sandbank. I looked closer and saw they were Manchurian trout tails. I didn’t see any heads or bones. It seemed the tigers had eaten the fish that had swum out to shallow waters to lay eggs. I’d heard rumors about tigers catching and eating fish, but this was the first evidence I’d seen with my own eyes.</p>

    <p class="ind">The best time for tigers to fish is in the fall when salmon and trout travel from the sea to the rivers to lay eggs. In September and October, bears gather along rivers to catch the fish. Tigers also come down to the river during this period for the salmon and the bears, although the bears are the tigers’ primary target.</p>

    <p class="ind">Since fish aren’t a staple for tigers, one rarely finds remnants of a tiger’s fish feast, let alone sees a tiger catching fish. What’s even stranger about what I saw was that the tigers had caught and eaten not salmon in the fall, but Manchurian trout in the spring. Only once in my life had I heard of tigers fishing Manchurian trout, and that was from a ginseng gatherer I am friends with in Mayak Village named Olga Kimonko. She told me a story she’d heard from her father, who was a hunter.</p>

    <p class="ind">As he had recounted it to Olga, “One year, I was traveling up along the river to hunt a Manchurian red deer. I was going around a sharp river bend when I saw Amba. Amba was just standing there in the middle of the river. I quickly hid behind a rock and waited for Amba to move on. But Amba just stood there for a long time. I looked closer and saw that Amba was staring into the water with one paw up. He stood very still for a long time and then suddenly slapped the paw above the water against the leg that was in the water. It made a big splash. Then Amba pulled something out of the water. It was a Manchurian trout about the size of a deer tail. He pulled it to land and started eating it head first. Amba ate it all and then went back in the water and stood very still again. Isn’t that clever?”</p>

    <p class="ind">I’d once researched an area where toads gather to lay eggs. When I returned some time later, tadpoles had hatched out of the eggs. The tadpoles scattered when I dipped my hand in the water, but soon returned and began to cling to my hand. When I slowly lifted my hand out of the water, I was able to scoop up a handful of tadpoles that were busy nibbling on the dead skin cells of my hand. I thought of the tadpoles when Olga told me the story about what her father saw.</p>

    <p class="blockquote1"><em>A tiger walked into the middle of the stream. The frightened trout scattered. The tiger lifted one paw and stood still. The water was shallow because of the spring dry spell, but there was enough to make the tiger’s fur dance in the current. He waited patiently for the trout to return, one by one. They tapped his legs with their snouts. They plucked and ate the tiger fur, thinking it was an aquatic plant or insect. The tiger watched carefully, then slapped the water, its paw coming down on the fish like a hammer. The tiger waded out of the water with the unconscious fish between its teeth.</em></p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>IT WAS INGENIOUS</small> of the tiger to use its own leg hair as bait. The method suited female tigers that are patient and cunning rather than powerful. It especially suited Bloody Mary’s personality. A silly tiger cub would have splashed around in the river, pouncing on every fish in sight like a bear catching salmon. But that method works only in the fall when the large, slow salmon swim up the river in big schools. It would be impossible to use such a clumsy method to capture the small, impossibly quick Manchurian trout that are far fewer in number.</p>

    <p class="ind">The traces of Bloody Mary’s meal revealed further evidence of her great intelligence, apart from her brilliant trout fishing: she knew when and where the Manchurian trout laid eggs, and she was aware that the spawning season falls during a dry spell when it’s easy to go in the water.</p>

    <p class="ind">The paw prints traveled up to meet Mizinets River. Not very far along, I came across a brook that cut through the forest and merged with the river. On the stretch of mud by the brook, I saw the clean paw prints of the tiger family. Four in total. One of them had a front paw width of 9.7 centimeters. Sure enough, it was Bloody Mary. The very same tiger that had left the paw prints I’d found and measured at Tachinko Beach some time ago. She’d had a litter of three: two females, one male. The two female cubs had similar front paw pad widths: 9.2 centimeters and 9.4 centimeters. The other cub’s measurement was 10.8 centimeters—a boy.</p>

    <p class="ind">Female cubs don’t become as big as their mothers until they’re two years old, but male cubs grow much faster. When a male cub is one year old, its stature and paw pad width are already that of its mother (but its body is still mostly baby fat). The cubs’ measurements revealed that they were nearly grown, about a year and a half old. Among the female tigers in Ussuri, Bloody Mary was one of the best mothers. She had once again managed to safely raise three cubs.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the mating season, female tigers spread their scent to notify male tigers. The scent is so strong and seductive that the male tigers put off hunting, the most important task for tigers, to attend to the females. Almost every male tiger in the territory picks up the scent and comes to a female in heat. The Great King is no exception. And when he turns up, it doesn’t matter how many other tigers are also interested—the female mates with the Great King. Based on the timing, Bloody Mary’s first and second litters were progeny of the last Great King, whom I’d nicknamed “Tail.” But there was a good chance that this litter was fathered by Khajain, the current Great King of Lazovsky and the spirit of Sikhote-Alin.</p>

    <p class="ind">The fog spread and gradually thickened into a misty rain. It began to drizzle. A raindrop bounced off a long leaf bent back like an orchid and spattered into dozens of little beads. On the faraway Deer River, the delicate lines of drizzle danced in the wind. The spring monsoon had begun. Bloody Mary and her family must have been walking along a river that was swelling and growing ever more enchanting. The traces peppered behind would be washed away in the spring showers.</p>

   

    
  </body>
</html>