<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-9">CHAPTER 6</h1>
    
    <h1 class="chaptit">Temu, the Spirit of Storm</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>SUMMER WOKE THE FOREST</small>. The  – l –ast d –ull e –choes of the wild mallards had died out, and bush warblers and wrens wove the canopy with song. The flowers that had laid colorful carpets in the spring had vanished, and summer blossoms with tall stigmas had taken their place. Red and yellow blooms lined the brooks. Blood irises lured wild bees and insects with their fluttering purple banners.</p>

    <p class="ind">We had surveyed Dipiko for over a week without finding anything out of the ordinary other than a good number of acorns on the oaks and evidence of the wild boars’ exploits. Then we traveled over to Santago and surveyed the river for a week as we made our way upstream. No signs of tigers there either. So we headed toward the Dragon Spine via Urine Rock. Urine Rock is geographically significant because it’s on the crossroads between Santago to the west, Dipiko to the south, and the Dragon Spine to the east. Tigers often make an appearance at this intersection and leave their mark by spraying their urine there—hence the name. It’s an important landmark for them.</p>

    <p class="ind">Valosia and Galina, who were walking ahead of me, bent down to study the ground. Tiger prints, clear on the damp ground after the spring showers. Even at a glance, I could tell they were huge. There was probably only one tiger in Lazovsky with a paw this size: Khajain. Before Khajain took over Lazovsky, his prints had usually been found in the south of the region. This meant he’d been born there. It was possible he was related to Bloody Mary, whose territory was in southeastern Lazovsky. It was unlikely that they had a parent–child relationship because there wasn’t enough of an age difference, but they might have been siblings or half-siblings. They were both over ten years old and in their prime.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain’s footsteps took a detour before Urine Rock and led to a birch by the mountain path. There were claw marks on the thick tree trunk. It seemed he had dug his claws in as high as he could on the trunk and then dragged them down. The claw marks were over three meters high. I could barely reach their height by standing up straight and raising my walking stick above my head. Tigers compete with one another by leaving the thickest claw marks on the highest spot. Most tigers leave their marks at about one and a half to two and a half meters, and the Great King is the only tiger who can leave a claw mark at the highest point. Above the base of the trunk was a black stain from years and years of tiger urine. There was some yellowish hair on the black mark. Khajain had made his claw mark and then rubbed his face and neck against the urine stain to cover the scent of other tigers with his own. Tiger hair has a unique scent that can also be used to mark territory in spots other animals and tigers frequent.</p>

    <p class="ind">The number of territory markers one tiger leaves is far greater than you might think. We have yet to discover the correlation between the number of tigers in a given region and the number of territory markers they leave, but it’s clear that the more tigers that use a certain path, the more marks each of them leave. If one tiger leaves a territory marker, this triggers a competitive spirit in other tigers who also rush to leave a mark.</p>

    <p class="ind">After marking his territory on the birch, Khajain had walked along the mountain path. About five hundred meters ahead of us was a small hole dug into the side of the trail. It was a tiger stamp, a hole in the ground with urine or excrement in it, used to mark territory. The tiger digs the earth with its hind legs, and if it can’t leave urine or excrement, it just leaves the hole. These holes are usually small, but I once saw one that was two meters long and seventy centimeters wide. The size of the stamp has no relation to the size of the tiger, but has to do with the tiger’s personality. Some tigers leave unremarkable stamps that are no more than a few perfunctory scratches, while others habitually leave long, wide stamps. Khajain’s stamp was only fifty centimeters long, but so deep that the roots of nearby trees and shrubs were exposed. This was Khajain’s trademark.</p>

    <p class="ind">The excrement and urine in a stamp contain chemicals unique to individual tigers. To the human nose it just smells bad, but tigers can use these scents to tell each other apart. Dogs can, too. Taking advantage of these properties, researchers have been collecting tiger droppings since the 1990s. With the help of well-trained dogs, they divide these samples by smell. As the sample size grows, it gradually becomes possible for dogs to identify each tiger according to dropping smell. This method is very useful in determining the number of tigers that inhabit a certain region and estimating the size of their territory.</p>

    <p class="ind">We continued to follow Khajain’s tracks and found ourselves at Urine Rock, roughly the size of a cottage. The tracks stopped. There was a strong stench coming from a spot on the rock about one and a half meters aboveground. Khajain had lifted his tail here, aimed at the rock, and sprayed his urine. It was pungent. I was certain he had sprayed after the spring showers. A tiger sprays its urine anywhere other tigers can find it—trees, rocks, logs, anywhere. But Urine Rock is special. The rock is overwhelmingly tall and clearly visible from far away. The smell of tiger urine is strong and pungent, so from here it reaches other tigers easily. Deer and wild boars also know what the scent means and stay away.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once Khajain had sprayed Urine Rock, he had climbed the Dragon Spine. He must have been busy reinforcing the territory markers that had washed away in the spring showers. It’s the duty of the Great King to leave his scent, claw marks, and excrement all over Lazovsky to declare to beasts and humans that this land is his. Tail, Khajain’s predecessor, had also come by Urine Rock frequently after snow or rain.</p>

    <p class="ind">I took out the plaster I had prepared and added water from the stream to form a thick mixture. I poured the mixture into Khajain’s front paw print. Twenty minutes later, I lifted out the hardened plaster and dusted off the dirt. The plaster mold of the Great King’s paw was complete. It was evidence of Khajain’s existence and a part of the history of Ussuri forest. I would place this next to the plaster molds of his predecessors.</p>

    <p class="ind">After sundown, we pitched our tents by the stream and started a fire. Over dinner, Galina brought up a story about Khajain.</p>

    <p class="ind">“We have a record of Khajain traveling ninety-two kilometers in fifteen hours. It was a coincidence that we were able to record it. A forest ranger in northern Lazovsky happened to pick up a fresh dropping, and the dogs confirmed that it was Khajain’s. But then the next day, another forest ranger from southern Lazovsky brought in another fresh dropping, and it was also Khajain’s. The elapsed time was fifteen hours. He’d managed to travel ninety-two kilometers in that time.”</p>

    <p class="ind">It is very rare for tigers to move in a straight line so quickly. And even if the tiger really does it, it’s difficult to measure the time and distance it travels. Tigers generally travel at a leisurely pace. If prey is abundant, the tiger stays for a while, but if it isn’t, it leaves. There are many places tigers stop along the way—places to mark territory, places they’ve hunted before, places suitable for rest, the place they were born, and so on. Even if the tiger is traveling ninety-two kilometers in a straight line, this could take a month or two.</p>

    <p class="ind">But if a male picks up the scent of a female in heat or a mother is looking for her cubs, it’s a different story. When such urgent matters come up, tigers forget everything else and head to their destination in a straight line. But they don’t run at full speed like they do when hunting. Carnivores like tigers are good short-distance runners, but lack the endurance to run long distances. They get tired after running just a few kilometers at full speed, so they jog at a steady pace instead. This way, tigers can cover a distance of close to one hundred kilometers over twenty-four hours. I’ll bet they could go faster if they wanted to.</p>

    <p class="ind">We’d planned to climb the Dragon Spine the next day, the first of July, the beginning of the second half of the year. As the last day of June wound to a close, the wind was gentle, but a thick plume of cloud was gathering above the mountains. The sun cast its last light through the rolling clouds. The sunset was as red as blood.</p>

    <p class="ind">The next day came with frenzied wind, which blew in all directions as we started our ascent. Then it began to rain. When we were about halfway up the Dragon Spine, the raindrops became heavier. We gathered branches, placed them on top of a shrub, covered it with a big plastic tarp, and added more branches on top of the tarp to make a roof. If it had been a passing thunderstorm, this should have been enough to keep us dry. But the rain came down harder. The sky opened and water poured down like a waterfall. Every dry crook in the mountain slope overflowed with a stream of rainwater as deep as a meter. A terribly strong wind blew away our roof. The forest swayed and nut pine branches snapped and flew away. Suddenly, there was a burst of light and everything was illuminated. I saw lightning shoot straight down, followed by the crash of thunder. With a monstrous sound, an elm that seemed at least a hundred years old split in two before my eyes. The tree fell slowly, taking the surrounding young trees with it. Trees with large trunks were uprooted and carried away by the stream. A whirlwind sucked up the yellow water of the river and tossed it everywhere. Temu, the spirit of sea and storms, had paid us a visit.</p>

    <p class="ind">We crawled up the Dragon Spine in the downpour. Once I was as soaked as if I were crawling up a river, I found myself enjoying the rain. Only after we passed the summit did we find a little cave where we could take shelter. It was eerie inside the cave, which wasn’t small, but too small to pitch a tent.</p>

    <p class="ind">I took off my backpack and caught my breath. Valosia and Galina looked like drowned rats. Fortunately, there was a big pile of leaves in the cave. I could make out the vague indentation of a large animal that had been lying on the pile of leaves. I saw yellow hair as well. A tiger must have been here. Was it Khajain who climbed the Dragon Spine ahead of us? I saw the paw prints of a badger, too. It made me feel closer to the poor creature as I pictured it huddled here to keep dry. Animals and humans alike are helpless in bad storms.</p>

    <p class="ind">We gathered a pile of leaves and lit a fire to dry ourselves. The smoke filled the cave, making our eyes red. As the air slowly cleared, the cave grew warm. We collected rainwater for tea and had a brief snack. Valosia lit his cigarette on the campfire, and Galina scolded him for stinking up the tiger cave with cigarette smoke. Valosia seemed nevertheless happy as a child. We discussed this and that before we all fell silent again. We listened to the sound of the wind threatening to blow everything off the face of the earth and the rain pouring down as if there were a hole in the sky. It didn’t seem like the storm would let up any time soon.</p>

    <p class="ind">When I live in the forest, I become absorbed by the various sensations of nature—the pure morning air, the swamp-like morning fog, the still noontime sunlight, the soft evening breeze, the blue cold of the frozen tundra, and the white snow flowers of the dazzling snowy landscape. I watched the majestic storm through the opening of the cave. What would the cave look like from the storm outside? Peace in the midst of chaos!</p>

    <p class="ind">I piled up some leaves and unrolled my mattress on top of them, then crawled into my sleeping bag. The sound of the storm lulled me to sleep. Which tiger was it that had lain in this very spot where I was lying now? Where had Bloody Mary’s family found shelter in this storm? My imagination ran away on me, mingling with the chaos of outside, and faded as I drifted off to sleep.</p>

   


  </body>
</html>