<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-10">CHAPTER 7</h1>
  

    <h1 class="chaptit">Deer Hunting in the Fog</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE STORM RAGED</small> on for two days, but started to let up by dawn of the third day, and the rain finally stopped that morning. Rays of sunlight streamed down from the east, and the sky cleared. Enduri had calmed the wild temper of Temu. I walked outside the cave and looked down at the forest. The cloud was chasing after the tail of the storm. The forest had become thinner, but the air was clean and a mist hung above the river. In the canopies of pine trees poking above the mist, a flock of crows was making a racket.</p>

    <p class="ind">Crows are the chatterboxes of the forest that meddle with every little thing that goes on in their neck of the woods. Where there are crows causing a commotion, there’s always something happening. When carnivores have hunted prey, crows somehow find out and spread the news far and wide. They hang around patiently for a little morsel of meat and follow the tigers if they drag their prey elsewhere. For Ussuri tigers who like to move around stealthily, these crows are a nuisance. But for us, the crows were helpful informants. We never failed to check out areas where crows and jays had gathered or where eagles were circling above.</p>

    <p class="ind">We carefully made our way down the Dragon Spine and along the river. Cascading mud had erased the path and made the riverbank very slippery. The river and forest were inundated with a milky mist. I couldn’t see so much as a foot in front of me and felt as though I were in a sea of fog. In the fog, I saw something black moving along lazily. It waded across the river and approached me. My heart pounded. The wind stirred the thick fog and unveiled the mystery: it was a towering Asian black bear.</p>

    <p class="ind">Perhaps it was the fog or its bad eyesight, but it continued heading toward me even though I was standing right in its path. My heart raced faster. I thought about retreating, but stood still. The bear that had been looking straight at me finally grasped the situation, and his expression changed instantly. He quickly turned and ran down the wild, muddy river and disappeared into the fog again.</p>

    <p class="ind">It’s curious. I never see bears when I’m wandering the forest looking for them, yet in a moment like that, when the forest was in disarray after the storm and all parties were distracted, we had run into each other. It may have had bad eyesight, but bears have good senses of smell and hearing, and it had come up to me all on its own. It had all happened so quickly that I could hardly believe I had just seen a bear except for the fact that I distinctly remembered thinking that bears swim as well as tigers do.</p>

    <p class="ind">The landscape along the river had changed, and so had the direction of the tributaries. The muddy water rushed past beneath my feet. The water level had risen. The large trees that had been uprooted and carried away by the river were stuck here and there in the riverbed. A few hundred-year-old trees that had washed down, roots and all, had formed a new log bridge. Clumps of dirt and young trees clung to the thick roots jutting above the whirlpool of yellow foam, sending bits downstream in the rushing current. With so many old trees drowned in the river, the spirit of the water must have been overjoyed.</p>

    <p class="ind">If you look carefully on a clear day, you can see the outlines of old trees and logs under the rippling water of a river that runs through the forest. The movement of the water creates an optical illusion and makes the logs seem like great slithering mythical snake monsters. If the log happens to be coniferous, like a pine or a nut pine, the tortoise shell–like bark looks just like the scale of a giant reptile.</p>

    <p class="ind">The spirits of the water, whom the Udege worship, live in such places. Runge, a water spirit in the service of Temu, dwells in rotten trees at the bottom of rivers. The Udege, therefore, are careful not to mistreat the sunken logs. If they happen to stab a log while trying to catch a fish with a spear, they ask Runge for forgiveness: “O, spirit of the water! Please forgive me, for I did not mean to harm you!” And when the river is flooded, as it was after the storm we’d just had, they burn dandelions as an offering to the spirits of the water. It’s a ritual to stop the water from coming.</p>

    <p class="ind">We gathered some azaleas and sent them floating down the river, then carefully continued on our way upstream along the forest path. The trail was muddy and the forest was dripping. Torn by the wind and weighed down by the rain, the leaves were no longer as glossy as if they were coated in oil. But the tree canopy was coming back to life bit by bit as the morning sunlight revived it. The birds had begun to sing again.</p>

    <p class="ind">About two hours later, we found tiger tracks again. They were as clear as if the tiger had just gone by. On the damp ground, there was blood and a trace of something being dragged. It had been hauled out of the woods on the left, then briefly along the path, then into the woods on the right. There was blood on the leaves as well, meaning it had been spilled after the rain had stopped that morning. We measured the width of the front pad: 9.7 centimeters.</p>

    <p class="ind">The uproarious sound of crows cawing came closer. Tracks of several tigers appeared. The cubs had joined the hunter. It was Bloody Mary. We ventured deeper into the forest and saw frenzied crows flying about in the thick fog. When we got closer, a flock of crows scattered and the outline of the prey became clear. It was a doe. The flesh was still fresh and blood had not congealed yet. Only a quarter of it remained. There was another deer about ten meters away. It was a fawn, maybe one or two months old. All that remained of it were its hooves, bones, and head. Its young eyes, still open, were stricken with fear.</p>

    <p class="ind">I could see in my mind’s eye a clear image of Bloody Mary out for a hunt the moment the storm had passed. She would have used the thick post-storm fog and the wet forest ground that muted the sound of movement to her advantage. The Ussuri sika deer mother and daughter had fallen prey to her cunning. A cub had got the fawn as it tried to get away. Of the three cubs, the female with the smaller paws had killed the fawn a short distance away and dragged it over here to eat it.</p>

    <p class="ind">The murky water in the muddy tiger track was still moving. Bloody Mary and her family had just been here tearing the flesh off these deer. They must have left when they heard us coming. I looked around, but all I saw was fog. They must have hidden themselves somewhere in the forest and were watching our every move. To allow Bloody Mary and her family to eat in peace, we collected some basic data and headed toward the river, making a lot of noise so that the tigers would know we were leaving. We traveled downstream along the river, where they could see us leave as well.</p>

    <p class="ind">It would interfere with our work in many ways if Bloody Mary were to see us as people who pursued tigers. It was best to be seen as passers-by who just happened to be near her. It would have been obvious to the tigers that we were up to something if we lingered at one area for a while doing a thorough sweep for data. Bloody Mary would detect the dissimilarity in our behavior and then act differently herself.</p>

    <p class="ind">Domesticated animals like cats and dogs can look at their human companions’ facial expressions and discern their moods and whether the humans like them or not. The same is true for smart tigers in the wild. <em>Why are those humans here? By coincidence or by design?</em> They figure out human intentions based on behavior, expressions, and the energy radiated by people and take precautions or even attack accordingly.</p>

    <p class="ind">A jay once built a nest in the juniper tree at a temple I used to go to. Out of curiosity one day, a monk at the temple peeked inside and happened to meet the gaze of the jay brooding an egg. The monk felt sorry, as if he’d invaded someone’s privacy by looking into their bedroom. From that day on, the monk purposefully ignored the jay when he passed by the nest. The jay also grew to ignore the presence of the monk coming and going, and it was able to raise its young and leave the nest. In contrast, an azure-winged magpie once built a nest in my friend’s garden. Enchanted by its light blue wings and long tail, my friend looked in on the bird often. Not long after, the magpie gave up the nest and flew away, leaving behind a rotten egg.</p>

    <p class="ind">We can’t see all of nature with our own eyes, and there is no need to. Like the monk who believed that the baby jay would grow safely into adulthood without him watching, it’s important that we believe without seeing. If the monk ignores the jay, the jay ignores the monk; if we ignore the tigers, the tigers ignore us, too.</p>

   

  
  </body>
</html>