<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-11">CHAPTER 8</h1>
  

    <h1 class="chaptit">Survival-of-the-Fittest Cub</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>SPLASH</small>!</p>

    <p class="ind">The water spontaneously jumped and writhed. It was the taimen, which, at nearly two meters long and one hundred kilograms, is the largest trout in the world. In floods, taimen swim upstream.</p>

    <p class="ind">An eel also swam against the current, thrashing from head to tail. Fighting the strong current brought by the flood, it crossed the river with its head held high and its belly pulled as far out of the water as possible. In the eel’s wake, a frog slowly rose to the surface. The frog froze just below the water with only its big, popping eyes above the surface, keeping a watchful eye on the passing eel. Deciding it was safe, it kicked its legs to get to the edge of the water and slowly climbed a tree trunk submerged by the flood. It seemed tired. At that moment, a maroon creature darted like lightning through the muddy water and shot up toward the tree trunk. The startled frog jumped in the air. The heavy taimen nimbly turned in the air, swallowed the frog whole, and fell back in the river. It drew a long curve on the water with its muscular back and vanished as if nothing had happened.</p>

    <p class="ind">As the sun sailed to the top of the cloudless sky, the temperature continued to rise. We found a good spot on the river and unloaded our backpacks. To shake off the post-storm fatigue, we had decided to pitch camp earlier in the day. We pulled out everything that was wet—tent, clothes—and left it out to dry. For dinner, we would have taimen prepared in traditional Udege style.</p>

    <p class="ind">First, we went into the forest to gather mushrooms. The forest was mushroom heaven. The mycelium, or the thread-like vegetative phase of fungi that grows on rotten trees or leaves, had absolutely taken over the moment it stopped raining. After a summer rain, the mycelium grows and forms the shape of a mushroom within six hours. Mushrooms come in a variety of shapes after which they are named—turkey tails, puffballs, rounded earthstars, shaggy ink caps, and long net stinkhorns. They were ballooning in every nook and cranny. The spirit of the earth lives in fallen, rotten trees all over the forest. Mushrooms are a summer gift from the spirit of the earth.</p>

    <p class="ind">Living in the woods, you come to appreciate mushrooms. They absorb the toxicity of other ingredients or the smell of fish and add a fragrant, clean taste to food. If you learn to identify poisonous varieties like <em>Inocybe</em> mushrooms and fly agaric, mushrooms can be a great help. We picked armfuls of pine mushrooms and jelly ears. We also gathered lots of Alpine leeks.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the afternoon, graylings started popping out of the water to eat mosquitoes or mayflies that flew close to the surface. I cast a line and quickly felt a bite. I caught a few graylings and then used them as bait to catch the taimen.</p>

    <p class="ind">The sun was beginning to set. Soon it would be time for the taimen to come out in search of dinner. After a flood, taimen tend to gather on the edge of the water rather than in the middle of the river because the riverbank is rich with insects that had drowned as the water level had risen. Since taimen are carnivorous, I kept yanking the line and moving the bait to make it look alive.</p>

    <p class="ind">About ten minutes later, I felt a tug. I pulled as hard as I could. A large taimen jumped once as I pulled. I saw its bluish-brown back. It thrashed once more, and the line went slack. It’s not easy fishing with a barbless hook. I cast again and gazed at the line, which seductively wavered each time I gave it a tug.</p>

    <p class="ind">The sun sank below the horizon, casting the long evening light across the surface of the water. The shadow of the mountain furtively crept into the current. Saturated by the colors of the sunset, the river flowed. Insects flew along the current and fish jumped below them. The dark silhouettes of jumping fish danced above the surface and dove back with lively splashes of dark droplet-shaped silhouettes. When it all calmed, the silvery current resumed its journey. I knew that the glow of the water was an optical illusion, but I was captivated by the unhurried flow all the same.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Ping!</em></p>

    <p class="ind">The fishing line was yanked into the water and pulled taut. I could feel something at the end of the line, which felt like it was about to snap. I reeled it in slowly as the fishing line drew an arc like a compass.</p>

    <p class="ind">With a flutter and a splash, the taimen leapt out of the water and then fell again. It was a big one. I quickly reeled in the line to maintain tension and then slowed down, giving the taimen time to exhaust itself. After about ten minutes, I started to reel in harder. The large trout drew a neat wake on the water as I pulled it in. Near the riverbank, the taimen struggled once more in vain, tossing its muscular body. I kept the line taut, remembering that I’d lost the first fish by letting the line hang loose at this point. The taimen struggled once more when its head was out of the water, but I dragged its heft to land. It jumped and rolled around on the sand; before long it lay still with its mouth opening and closing.</p>

    <p class="ind">Living as we did off of what the forest provided, I felt grateful for the generosity of nature. In my head, I thanked Runge.</p>

    <p class="ind">I gutted the trout and pulled out the entrails. I washed it clean, sprinkled salt on the inside and outside, and stuffed it with leeks and mushrooms. To the side, I spread out several layers of Alpine leeks and then a layer of mushrooms on top. I placed the trout on top of that, and added more mushrooms. I wrapped the trout with the Alpine leeks underneath, placed the bundle on top of the fire’s embers, and pressed it down with a flat, wide rock. On the flat rock, I made a fire as well. This is how the Udege cook taimen.</p>

    <p class="ind">We took out a bottle of spirit that is 99 percent alcohol. We bring a bottle of this strong alcohol with us to limit the weight we have to carry when we head into the mountains. We drew some clean water to dilute the spirit. If consumed without diluting, the alcohol can burn the esophagus. If watered down to 60 percent, it makes <em>samogon,</em> a popular Russian moonshine. Forty percent makes vodka.</p>

    <p class="ind">We poured some spirit on the fire. The flames flared up. The Udege always throw some alcohol or food in the fire when they build one. It’s an offering so that Puza, the spirit of fire, will bring them peace and luck.</p>

    <p class="ind">Puza lives in old trees or hearths where there is phosphorescence. When a woodsman cuts down an old tree, he must first ask Puza to leave. One must not poke around a fire or a hearth with a sharp piece of metal, because it might hurt Puza.</p>

    <p class="ind">After it was in the hot fire for an hour, we lifted off the top stone and placed the large trout wrapped in Alpine leeks on it. We peeled off the charred leaves to see steam rising from the layer of half-burnt mushrooms. The mushrooms had absorbed just enough fat from the trout to make the meat tender, but not too greasy. The pungent smell of fish had been tempered by the mushroom layer and replaced by the subtle scent of mushrooms and garlic. For the first time in a while, we enjoyed our feast with vodka.</p>

    <p class="ind">Stars filled the clear night sky. After the storm, the gentle wind of the river felt cool. The flames danced in the breeze. All feelings are purified before a fire, and the tender emotions of times long gone come back to life. We sat and discussed the past and future of Siberian tigers and the groundbreaking tiger researcher L. G. Kaplanov. If it weren’t for his efforts and sacrifice, we wouldn’t have been able to see the most courageous, most beautiful, and largest carnivore on earth, except in zoos.</p>

    <p class="ind">The population of wild tigers in Lazovsky has remained between eight and twelve since the late 1990s. Even though the population growth in this area has stagnated, annual reports say that the total population of Siberian tigers has grown each year. In 2010, the American research team at the Sikhote-Alin Nature Reserve reported the total population as approximately five hundred. The number of Siberian tigers surviving in the wild in China and North Korea is under fifty. Between thirty and forty live in Manchuria, ten in the Korean Peninsula, and the rest of the five hundred in Ussuri—but some researchers think that number is inflated.</p>

    <p class="ind">In Ussuri, the customary way to count tigers is the parallel method. Kaplanov, the first scientist to systematically count tigers, implemented this method, which involves many research teams counting at the same time as they travel along major rivers in tiger territories. Because it investigates every major route that tigers take in the given region, the method has the advantage of getting a relatively precise count of tigers in the area. However, it requires a lot of manpower and a costly budget, because the entire vast region is investigated at the same time. To cut costs, laypersons such as hunters and villagers are recruited to help. Since it’s often confusing even for experts to tell if a pugmark belongs to a male or a female, it goes without saying that laypersons can get it wrong. They confuse dog or puma tracks with tiger tracks or count the same tiger twice when they see tracks in another region. More conservative estimates place roughly three hundred tigers in Ussuri. They’re endangered animals, and their population has neither increased nor shrunk. The birth of new tigers does not add to the population count, because the same number of tigers die each year.</p>

    <p class="ind">They say tigers raise only the fittest cub and abandon the rest. While it’s true that only the fittest cubs survive, it isn’t because some are abandoned. There’s a sad reality behind this claim. Mother tigers try hard to raise all their cubs, but with their habitat shrinking, the number of poachers increasing, and the number of ungulates decreasing, over half the cubs in a litter die of starvation, disease, or accidents before they reach adulthood. Even mature tigers sometimes fall victim to snares and booby traps, but that’s nothing compared to the unfavorable odds that cubs are dealt until they become sexually mature and mentally independent at the age of three. Only one or two lucky, strong cubs survive.</p>

    <p class="ind">Things were worse in the past. Wild tigers were nearly wiped out in Ussuri at one point. In the early 1900s, when Kaplanov was born, an estimated six hundred to eight hundred tigers lived in Ussuri. But the population rapidly plummeted because hunting tigers was legal and guns quickly replaced arrows and spears as the preferred hunting tool. Back then, tiger hunters were considered heroes. It was a time when people who pointed guns at tigers could claim to be “poaching scientists.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Kaplanov grew up watching countless tigers slaughtered. He believed this would lead to no good and decided to devote his life to researching tigers. The more he wandered the forest looking for tigers, the more he realized that their traces were disappearing. And then one day, they vanished altogether. For twenty years, there were no tiger tracks on the eastern slope of the Sikhote-Alin Range, and it seemed no tiger ever visited the Bikin River Valley. Tigers had vanished even in the Lazovsky Nature Reserve. Researchers could not find a single tiger-eaten deer carcass from 1936 to 1948, but there was a staggering rise in the wolf population. Wolves were often seen all over Lazovsky, hunting deer in groups.</p>

    <p class="ind">Kaplanov felt the need for a more systematic way to count tigers. In 1939 and 1940, he counted tigers by spending the entire winters walking through snow-covered terrain in search of tiger tracks. He concluded that there were no more than thirty tigers in the Ussuri region and that perhaps the number was closer to twenty. Of these, three were shot in 1940.</p>

    <p class="ind">It came as a shock to Kaplanov that the Siberian tiger, once boasting a population of over ten thousand across Ussuri, Manchuria, and the Korean Peninsula, had only twenty to thirty members left in its species. If he did nothing, they were sure to go extinct. Kaplanov continued his research and prepared a paper on the Siberian tiger’s sharp population decline, and he fought to prevent tiger poaching. And then one day, he was murdered by a poacher. He was thirty-two years old.</p>

    <p class="ind">His paper was published posthumously. In it, he warned that Siberian tigers would soon become extinct. He pleaded for the illegalization of all tiger hunting and a five-year suspension of tiger cub captures for zoos. In 1947, the then Soviet Union passed a law that banned all tiger hunting. In 1956, the five-year suspension on the live capture of tiger cubs, whether for research or for zoos, was also passed.</p>

    <p class="ind">Just as Kaplanov argued, it was only after the ban on tiger poaching that tiger tracks emerged again in Ussuri. The tiger population in Ussuri slowly grew, and in the early 1970s, the ungulate carcasses left by tigers finally outnumbered ones left by other carnivores. According to a report in 1978, the tiger population had risen to two hundred.</p>

    <p class="ind">But in the early 1990s, when the Soviet Union began to dissolve, the situation rapidly changed for human society and nature alike, spelling another crisis for the Siberian tiger. In this time of social turmoil, an enormous international market for the selling and buying of all commercially valuable wildlife opened in Ussuri, just a stone’s throw away from China, Korea, and Japan, adding fuel to the rising demands.</p>

    <p class="ind">The most valued commodity was the tiger. This triggered a systematic, grand-scale poaching operation that spread like wildfire. Special snares, booby traps, and even landmines were invented specifically for tigers. During this period, approximately sixty tigers were illegally hunted every year. This had a direct impact on the tiger population in the nature reserves, which was reduced by more than half in the mid-1990s. The ungulate population also took a nosedive.</p>

    <p class="ind">The political situation in Russia eventually settled, and international efforts to protect tigers caused their population to stabilize again in the late 1990s. From the twenty or thirty tigers Kaplanov presumed remaining in 1940, the population multiplied tenfold, ushering tigers out of a serious risk of extinction. This number, however, is not enough to guarantee long-term survival. There are still a variety of natural and manmade factors that threaten the species.</p>

    <p class="ind">If Kaplanov’s proposal hadn’t been implemented in 1947, the Ussuri tigers would have met the same fate as their Korean and Manchurian counterparts. In commemoration of Kaplanov’s forward-thinking efforts and sacrifice, the Lazovsky Nature Reserve was renamed the L. G. Kaplanov Lazovsky National Nature Reserve.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>I OPENED MY EYES</small>. I heard the quiet chirps of small birds. When I drew my tent flap, morning dew rolled off the roof. The river flowed beneath the light mist.</p>

    <p class="ind">On my way down to the river, I stopped abruptly. Tiger tracks. The tracks came out of the forest, stopped in front of Galina’s tent, changed course, circled twice the tent where Valosia and I had slept, and then disappeared back into the forest. Bloody Mary had paid us a visit when we were all sleeping. It wasn’t surprising given her personality. This was to be expected since we were in her territory, but I was still amazed by her skill and persistence to spy on us without being seen.</p>

    <p class="ind">The previous night, Bloody Mary had probably left her cubs somewhere and kept watch alone in the forest. She would have waited for us all to fall asleep and cautiously come out to investigate. She had circled Valosia’s and my tent twice to see what we were up to and whether we smelled of metal, signaling danger. But all she’d needed to suss out Galina was a quick sniff.</p>

    <p class="ind">Dunkai, a Nanai, is a hunter and an artist who draws tigers. He once told me that tigers are able to tell people apart. “The Nanai never shoot tigers,” he said. “The same goes for the Udege. This is wise for the Nanai and Udege, because if you shoot a tiger, tigers will pursue you for as long as you live. The Nanai always use a walking stick in the forest, so the tigers know from the sound of the walking stick that the man is a Nanai. They also know that Nanais will not harm them, so they aren’t wary of anyone carrying a walking stick. But they are suspicious of Russian hunters who carry guns. They stalk them and when they see an opportunity, attack the Russian hunters.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers can tell hunters apart from non-hunters. They know the difference between an herb collector’s satchel and a hunter’s rifle and can differentiate between a man and a woman by the way they dress and from the smell of cosmetics or cigarettes. They also know that men are far more dangerous than women. This explains why Bloody Mary did not worry about Galina but circled our tent twice.</p>

    <p class="ind">We would be able to find out more about Bloody Mary if we were to follow her tracks, but she had her cubs with her. A female tiger traveling with cubs has a hair-trigger sensitivity. Given her disposition, she would find us suspicious if we were to follow her then. She may still have been hidden in the forest somewhere, watching us that very moment. We decided not to do anything that could make her nervous.</p>

    <p class="ind">Leaving Bloody Mary and her family behind, we headed for Siaoka. The water level in the river had gone down a great deal.</p>

   

  
  </body>
</html>