<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-12">CHAPTER 9</h1>
    

    <h1 class="chaptit">Tiger Family on the Beach</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>COOL WINDS BLEW</small> from the East Sea on the coastal cliff of Tachinko. This was the northern border of Bloody Mary’s territory. Mayak Village, located about sixty kilometers south along the coast, marked the southern border of her territory. The coastal range that branched out from the Sikhote-Alin Range ran all the way down to Mayak Village.</p>

    <p class="ind">We traveled down the coastal ridge for several days and came across an old tree standing on one part of the ridge. The circumference of the tree trunk was so large that it would take four adults joining hands to reach around it, and its branches snaking toward the sky formed a dome. White and red pieces of cloth tied to the end of the branches flapped in the wind like wild hair—evidence of people’s pilgrimages to a very remote part of the forest. This was Yaloan Tuke, the “Sky Tree of Life.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Tungusic tribes throughout history, including the Nanai and Udege, subscribed to the belief that they were the children of heaven. Each time a country was founded, its founding myth reflected this “children of heaven” theology.</p>

    <p class="ind">In this theology, a large bird or tree acts as the intermediary between heaven and earth. It operates as a medium. Large mountaintop trees such as Yaloan Tuke were thought to be the Sky Trees of Life or the cosmic trees of shamans and were considered especially sacred.</p>

    <p class="ind">The energy of Yaloan Tuke is in contact with the sky and the universe. The tree connects the energy of the earth and all that dwell on it with the energy of the universe. Enduri made this tree so that the energy of the middleworld could connect with the energy of the world above and maintain a balance. When the tree was made, a spirit was sent to protect it. The trunk growing out of the spirit’s back is firmly attached to the Sky Tree and helps channel the energy back and forth between sky, forest, and earth.</p>

    <p class="ind">The idea of this tree traveled across Siberia and over the Bering Sea to Alaska and the American continents, where it became the “spirit tree.” The spirit tree is represented as the Tree of Souls in James Cameron’s film <em>Avatar</em>, where it connects the Na’vi people to their deity. The film depicts an animistic circle of life where people are born in nature, communicate with nature through their lives, and return to nature in the end.</p>

    <p class="ind">The native Ussuri open their hearts to the Sky Tree of Life. Without sincerity, their spirits cannot connect with the spirit of heaven. If they do make a connection, their illnesses can be healed, they can ask for a baby, and they can divine the future. And each time they pass the tree on their way to hunt or harvest roots, they tie a red or white ribbon on the branches. The ribbons are a sign of respect to Amba, the god of the forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">Though Yaloan Tuke is a sacred symbol for the native Ussuri, it is also an important territorial landmark for the native tigers. Tigers prefer to mark their scents on larger trees because the larger the tree, the more conspicuous it is to other tigers.</p>

    <p class="ind">There were tiger claw marks on the trunk of Yaloan Tuke. It also smelled of urine. The Sky Tree was an important landmark for the Great King and for Bloody Mary. They came by often when they were patrolling the costal ridge at the eastern end of their territory.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>A SMALL BLACK </small>and white dog came bounding down the beach. I sat on the sand and waited with my arms open. The dog jumped into my embrace and licked my hands and face, her tail wagging excitedly. This was Chyara, the “four-eyed” lodge-guarding dog. People called her four-eyed because she had white spots on her forehead that made it look like she had two extra eyes. She had been guarding the lodge farther inland in the north until the year before, but she must have moved here with the forest ranger. She was as cute and sweet as ever, but she was getting old.</p>

    <p class="ind">There was a mountain lodge at the border where the beach ended and the forest began: the Lazovsky Nature Reserve Petrova Lodge. The forest ranger guarding the lodge greeted us, and we unpacked our things inside. The forest ranger told us he had seen tiger tracks on the path leading to Bishannie two days earlier.</p>

    <p class="ind">It was roughly fifteen kilometers to Mayak Village, and there were five beaches between the lodge and there, all with Udege names. The Udege don’t have a writing system, but the names are sometimes written phonetically.</p>

    <p class="ind">The next day, we set out for Bishannie. As the forest ranger had said, there were tiger tracks on the mountain path. There were two tigers, and based on paw width, it seemed they were the male and female cubs of Bloody Mary. We had seen their tracks inland a month earlier on the outskirts of the Dragon Spine. They must have been patrolling their territory. Bloody Mary’s tracks weren’t around, but she wasn’t far away.</p>

    <p class="ind">Cubs around the age of two don’t always travel with their mothers. Cubs usually become semi-independent at around a year and a half old. They’re on their own for a few days and then meet up with their mothers before parting ways again. Like hunting dogs that leave their owners to travel and hunt, they eventually return. In this phase, they eat some animals their mothers have hunted and hunt other large animals like deer and wild boars on their own, preparing to become independent. The time when they become completely independent depends on the availability of prey in their territories, but it’s usually at the two-and-a-half-year point when the mother starts to breed again.</p>

    <p class="ind">The siblings’ tracks led to the beach, which was isolated and undisturbed by the tracks of other animals. The waves washed up and down the fine, silky sand. If I were an Udege, I would have named this beach Bishannie (soft sand), too. The two tigers had walked alongside each other down the beach, leaving two long trails behind. Fine sand with a little bit of moisture allowed for clean tracks. They were beautiful. I always like the feeling that tracks like those ones give me—the fresh energy of live animals.</p>

    <p class="ind">The forest ranger had seen the tigers’ tracks three days earlier, and low tide at full moon had been four days before that. When it’s low tide at full moon, the moon’s gravitational pull makes the tidal range the greatest. So for two to three days before and after the full moon low tide, great waves wash everything from the sand. Therefore, Bloody Mary’s cubs had been on the beach three or four days earlier, after the full moon low tide, at night. Tigers almost never show themselves in such wide-open places as this in broad daylight.</p>

    <p class="ind">A large tree that had been ripped from its place in the forest and dragged out here long ago was lying on the beach. Half the tree was in the water, and the roots, the length of a grown man, were buried in the sand. Bathed in saltwater for years, the tree had bleached but was not rotten. On the roots of the great old tree, spreading out like a bushy beard, the tigers had left their marks. They had scratched and urinated. It must have been the cubs. An experienced tiger like Bloody Mary would not have marked her territory in a place such as this, which is wiped clean with each full moon. The cubs must have been practicing. But rather than making playful little scratches, they had left long vertical furrows similar to their mother’s. They were starting to prepare for their independence.</p>

    <p class="ind">The coastal cliff grew more perilous with every peak we climbed, then suddenly, the view opened up before us. Jagged rocks of all shapes and sizes were strewn at the bottom of the dizzying cliff. This was Malaya Apasna (small but dangerous) Beach. Past Malaya Apasna and a small cape, great waves crashed on the base of the cliff and stately rocks occupied another narrow beach. It would be difficult to dock a tugboat there, as there was hardly any sand. It was beautiful but potentially dangerous. This was Apasna (dangerous) Beach.</p>

    <p class="ind">We climbed carefully down to the beach. There were tiger tracks there—from three tigers. Bloody Mary had joined the two cubs that left tracks on the sand. But the third cub was nowhere to be found. Had something happened to her? Probably not. Two is nearly the age of independence. If a two-year-old cub were to be separated from its mother, it would be able to survive. If nothing had happened, the absent cub had matured faster than the other two. The closer cubs are to independence, the farther they wander from their mothers, and for longer periods.</p>

    <p class="ind">It’s easy for tigers that have parted to meet again. Their keen senses of smell and hearing combined with the habit of continuously marking and leaving their scent help them track each other down in no time. If they’re looking for family, it’s even easier. Like people, tigers are intimately familiar with the personality and habits of other members of their family. Their thorough knowledge of the forest, where they’ve hunted and played since they were cubs, also helps them track down their family members. Compared to tigers, we don’t know the first thing about tracking research.</p>

    <p class="ind">The mother and cubs had rested by a rock on the beach. There were marks in the sand where they had rolled from side to side, like the impression that a rolling barrel would make. Bloody Mary’s family had played and frolicked and had a good time. They would have licked each other and watched as ships sailed by. They had not forgotten to urinate on the rock before they left.</p>

    <p class="ind">After their break, the family had headed south along the coastal ridge for Mayak Village. On the way, the path to Triparashonka (three little boars) Beach was forbidding. It was riddled with cliffs and rocky peaks, and large pines, nut pines, and oaks had sprung up in between. The view of the East Sea from the top of the peak was refreshing.</p>

    <p class="ind">The area between the mountaintop and Triparashonka Beach is called Azalea Cliff. There is a good field of azaleas among the coniferous and deciduous trees. In the spring, the entire cliff turns pink. In the middle of Azalea Cliff are two caves where bears hibernate. Sunny because their entrances face southeast, these deep caves are occupied by bears every winter.</p>

    <p class="ind">Triparashonka Beach is a pebble beach, rare for this region. The beach is composed almost entirely of blue-black basalt and has hardly any sand. Washed in the waves for an eternity, each pebble is shaped like an egg and glittery. I’m not sure why the Udege named this beach Triparashonka. I once asked Olga Kimonko, the Udege woman I know from Mayak Village, if it had anything to do with the shape of the pebbles on the beach resembling wild boar droppings. Perhaps there’s a legend somewhere about three little pigs overcoming hardship and living happily ever after on this beach.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary had passed through Triparashonka Beach and straight on to Diplyak (warm even in the winter) Beach. Diplyak is a cozy basin with mountains all around it. As its name suggests, the Diplyak Basin is warm in the winter because it faces south and gets good light. The coastal ridge is not so forbidding that mountain goats cannot live on it, but it resembles Tachinko overall. The basin has a dense population of oaks. This oak forest, which begins at Triparashonka Beach, unfurls all the way to Mayak Village.</p>

    <p class="ind">We entered the forest. The oak canopy nearly blocked the sky. The shadows of oak leaves danced on the forest ground, and splotches of clear sunlight danced between them. Acorns that had ripened handsomely in the summer sun hung from branches in dense clusters. September was drawing near, and some of the acorns had already fallen off the trees.</p>

    <p class="ind">Acorns plopped to the ground, breaking the stillness in the forest. Acorns are the fuel of nature. They fall to the earth and become food for worms, which become breakfast for birds. Squirrels and gerbils eat some and store others in a place only they know. Some of the stored acorns will survive the winter and germinate in the spring thanks to their forgetful owners. Others will be buried under leaves and snow and will nourish deer and wild boars in the winter.</p>

    <p class="ind">A little brook that trickled down from the middle of the ridge ran through the oak forest, heading for the young pine grove at the mouth of the basin. The brook then continued through a shrubbed area and into the ocean. Adjacent to the shrubbed area was a beach. Because the waves had been eating away at the land for ages, the beach was about three meters lower than the shrubbed area. Diplyak Basin is ideal for ungulates in many ways. There’s plenty to eat and there’s a water source, however small. There are many places to rest on the sunny southern slope.</p>

    <p class="ind">There were tiger tracks on the beach. Bloody Mary’s family had gathered. The missing female cub had also returned. But there were five, not four, sets of tracks. The fifth set of paws was very large. It was the Great King, Khajain! He had been on a walk on the beach with Bloody Mary’s family. It was a truly amazing discovery. It was very rare for five tigers to gather, but it was amazing that the Great King was casually spending time with Bloody Mary’s family. This had two significances: it was proof that Khajain had fathered Bloody Mary’s cubs and that there was no conflict between Khajain and the male cub.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tracks followed the river and led to the pine grove. A few wild cherry trees stood by the brook, and a dozen young pines with thick, bushy branches grew nearby. In the pine forest, low-hanging branches made for a cozy space. The countless pine needles softened the sting of the hot sun and scattered the rays like rice grains on the forest floor. The ground was soft with layers of dry pine needles that had fallen over the years, and the low branches formed the shape of parasols, sheltering the ground from snow. It would be cool in the summer and warm in the winter here. From the pine forest, the ocean was visible over the surrounding shrubs, so it was easy to keep an eye on the area while inside the forest. What’s more, there was a brook nearby. Tigers like to rest in pine forests like these.</p>

    <p class="ind">There was a deer carcass in the forest. The flesh clinging to the bones was dry but not stiff, which meant it had been only a few days since it had died. Bloody Mary’s family must have hunted it and dragged it all the way over here to eat. Since there were five of them, almost all the flesh was gone, including the scalp. We found no evidence of a scuffle here, either. The fact that there had been no conflict over food meant all five were on friendly terms.</p>

    <p class="ind">There is one thing more threatening to a male cub than humans and other beasts —a male tiger that is not his father. Male tigers have an instinctive drive to spread their seed as far and wide as possible. They try to secure a vast territory and prevent other males from mating with the females in their domain. A tiger who has such a firm hold over his territory is the Great King.</p>

    <p class="ind">The larger the Great King’s territory, the more the young tigers born in the area are pushed to the edges of the nature reserve. Leaving the mountains spells trouble for tigers, as they run into poachers’ snares and farmers’ traps near the villages. It also doesn’t help that they are young, inexperienced, and unable to quickly adapt to new surroundings. For young male tigers, this is the second-most dangerous phase in life after their cub years. Male tigers are far more likely to die before they secure a territory than female tigers are. If a young male tiger manages to overcome these obstacles, migrate to a new region, and establish himself as the Great King, he takes on the important task of mating with the female tigers in the region. The tiger contributes to the well-being of the species by preventing incest.</p>

    <p class="ind">But most male tigers pushed out of their territories cannot secure new grounds, and therefore fail to spread their DNA. Even if there happens to be a vacancy, the competition is fierce. If a tiger does manage to take over a territory, he faces yet another challenge if a female in the territory already has cubs. Because female tigers don’t go into heat until they’ve raised their cubs to adulthood, the male tiger must wait a few years to mate with the female. No male tiger, however, is kind enough to wait that long. Once a male tiger takes over a territory, he kills the cubs spawned by all other male tigers to expedite the process. A female tiger who has lost her cubs goes into heat within weeks or months.</p>

    <p class="ind">The male leaves the moment he impregnates the female, and she raises the cubs alone. Even though they come from the same womb, male and female cubs have different relationships with their father. A male cub is a relative, but also a potential competitor. Unlike females, males are reluctant to share their territories with sons and brothers. Male cubs, therefore, frequently get into conflicts with their fathers as they grow bigger. Competition exerts a greater influence on their relationship than blood ties do. Because of this, there is a theory that if tiger fathers run into their sons before they are fully grown, they kill them. This story had spread among poachers and hunters in Ussuri, Manchuria, and North Korea.</p>

    <p class="ind">But Khajain’s attitude as he had walked along Diplyak Beach stood in stark contrast to the rumors. There were no hints of animosity in the footsteps he had left, only a firm acknowledgement that the cub was his son. The young male tiger was nearly fully grown. The family members were about six months away from going their own separate ways. The male cub was so big that its paw was eleven centimeters wide, large enough for the Great King to start feeling threatened. If the rumors were true, Khajain should have killed his son by now, or his son should have fled. But father and son had strolled down the beach together and shared a deer.</p>

    <p class="ind">Dr. Yudin at the Far East Branch of the Institute of Biology and Soil Science in Vladivostok raises tigers in a confined oak forest measuring 150 square meters. He has a male tiger named Kucher and a female named Nyurka. They’ve given birth to many litters together, and they’re famous for being the consolation tigers that TV stations film after failing to get footage of tigers in the wild. Dr. Yudin studies tiger family relations with these animals. According to his findings, male tigers are able to stay with their families, like female tigers do. As he explained, “Male tigers also play a very important role in the cubs’ education. They hunt for the cubs and watch them eat. If they’re eating wrong, the male tiger demonstrates for them. No matter how hungry the male tiger is, it gives up its food for its cubs. The males, in essence, help raise the cub. Researchers were surprised by this finding.”</p>

    <p class="ind">I’ve observed and filmed Kucher, Nyurka, and their cubs. There is fatherly affection in the way Kucher teaches and looks after his cubs, but his involvement can most likely be attributed to the confined space the tigers live in. The behavior of one confined tiger doesn’t represent the behavior of tigers everywhere.</p>

    <p class="ind">As the example of Khajain revealed, male tigers in the wild sometimes do seek out family and maintain good family relationships. As long as he was with his family, Khajain would teach and look after his cubs, as Kucher does. But this was a temporary arrangement. He wouldn’t stay with the cubs and look after them like their mother. There has been no evidence of such behavior in wild tigers. The instinct to travel around their vast territories is too strong for male tigers. Khajain had an unyielding impulse to check on his territory and keep things in line, to make sure another male tiger had not invaded his territory and that the female tigers were still around, to keep track of the movement of humans, and to monitor the migration of ungulates. Perhaps, like the Gwanggaeto tigers, he was constantly searching for new lands to conquer.</p>

    <p class="ind">There may be conflict between a father and son in the future, when the son is mentally and physically mature enough to fight over land with his father. The father might kill the son, or the son in his prime might banish his elderly father. But it was clear that Khajain was a father and not the Great King when he was on the beach with his son. He returned to his family after traveling around his territory and spent quality time with them.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary’s family had followed the brook and headed for a ridge on the coastal range. Ussuri deer had left fresh droppings scattered in the nearby oak forest. There were a few deer and wild boar skulls and bones as well.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger family had gone their separate ways at the summit of the coastal ridge. Bloody Mary had led the cubs down in the direction of Mayak Village, and Khajain had climbed the ridge inland. The East Sea undulated to the southeast, and the green sea of trees unfolded to the northwest. Khajain had set out on a pilgrimage across his land over the Sikhote-Alin Ridge. I could picture the Great King walking through the many overlapping folds of the ridge. I shivered as if a chill had passed over me, and suddenly felt alone.</p>

   

  
  </body>
</html>