<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-13">CHAPTER 10</h1>
  

    <h1 class="chaptit">People Who Worship Tigers</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>AFTER PARTING WAYS</small> with Khajain, Bloody Mary had headed south in a straight line. If she hadn’t traveled in a straight line, we might have lost her tracks halfway. Gravity pulls all creatures to the ground, but some are crafty enough to leave no tracks. Her cubs sometimes took a detour, but always returned to their mother.</p>

    <p class="ind">We followed Bloody Mary’s tracks over a few hills and discovered a lake four times the size of a soccer field. The water that flowed down the valleys of the coastal ridge gathered here and slowly made its way to the sea. This was Mayak Lake. A watery oval at the bottom of the coastal basin, it reflected the sky, clouds, and trees. The lake was a wide-open Cyclops eye of the land and a mirror of the forest, reflecting its surroundings. The sparrows that had yet to depart for their trip south glided just above the smooth surface of the lake, and a cattle egret stood among water lilies and roundleaf pondweed, occasionally reaching for something in the water with its beak. Besides that, the lakeside was quiet and deserted.</p>

    <p class="ind">Two more hills later, we spotted a zigzagging shoreline of capes covered in oak forests. On the cape jutting farthest into the sea stood a white lighthouse. The two navy-blue buildings next to the lighthouse were the barracks of a small military contingent stationed there to protect the lighthouse and the facilities.</p>

    <p class="ind">A thousand years ago, the soldiers here watched the ships of Korea and Japan sail by. Today, the Russian troops in Mayak do the same from the lighthouse. <em>Mayak</em> is Russian for “lighthouse.” On a slope a little ways away from the lighthouse was a small settlement of ten or so households. This was Mayak Village, the southern border of Bloody Mary’s territory.</p>

    <p class="ind">There’s a reason tigers do not dawdle. The border between tiger territory and human territory is a very important stop on a tiger’s patrol, but it’s dangerous to dwell there for long. Bloody Mary had stood on this high peak with her cubs by her side, looking down at the lighthouse barracks and Mayak Village. She had arrived at the end of her territory, observed the humans living there, and turned around.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tiger cubs receive geography lessons as they travel with their mothers. They learn about human villages and their dangers, where ungulates frequent, and where good hideouts are scattered across valleys where they can break their journey. Bloody Mary’s cubs were out there with their mother that very minute, learning something. Perhaps they were feasting on a wild boar they had hunted, or were resting. After a good rest, they would head inland toward Deer Valley or the Dragon Spine. Now that they had seen the east coast, it was time to travel inland.</p>

    <p class="ind">We decided to conclude our expedition research at that point. We bid farewell to the tracks of Bloody Mary’s family, the traces of tigers pouncing and chasing each other, and headed down to Mayak Village.</p>

    <p class="ind">Olga Kimonko’s house stood farthest up the slope. When I walked through the front door, I was greeted by Tanya, Olga’s daughter. She told me that her parents were still out in the mountains. (Most residents of Mayak are ginseng gatherers, who forage in the mountains, or fishermen.) I took off my backpack and felt so light that I thought I might fly away.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tanya, who had a limp from a childhood injury, looked after the house while her parents were out gathering roots. She had a twin brother, but he had moved away. Tanya had finished high school three years earlier, but she seldom left the house and didn’t speak much. She said she wanted to stay in the village forever and never get married.</p>

    <p class="ind">I first met Tanya’s parents in the woods. I was studying the forest when I saw an elderly Asian couple walking down the forest path toward me with a burlap sack slung over their backs. They came over and said hello as if they didn’t care that they would serve a heavy sentence if they were arrested for trespassing in a nature reserve. They were Aktanka (who just went by his last name) and Olga Kimonko, Tanya’s parents. Further conversation revealed that they’d been out to gather roots and that ginseng gathering was their livelihood. They said digging around on the mountain for roots was what they were accustomed to, comfortable with, and all there was to their lives. Worldly rules didn’t matter to them because they were living according to the rules of nature, not the rules of man. I knew that it was illegal for them to be in the nature reserve, but I saw no reason to report them. We walked together as we talked about tigers. We instantly became close, for we shared the same views on nature and tigers. The couple invited me to dinner, offered me a bed for the night, and the next morning gave me the present of a small medicinal root before I left. Ever since then, I have been dropping by when I am in the area to exchange news and catch up.</p>

    <p class="ind">The two ginseng gatherers returned close to dinnertime. They had gathered a great deal of roots, all of them old. It takes ginseng nearly a hundred years to fully mature, so they left the young plants and only took the fully grown ones. It was the end of August and the ginseng seed at the tip of the stigma was ripe red.</p>

    <p class="ind">The second Aktanka and Olga saw me, they skipped any sort of greeting and jumped straight to talking about the tiger tracks they had found in the mountains. It sounded like they had found Bloody Mary and her family’s tracks. They excitedly reported that they saw tiger tracks when they were in the mountains, but they’d never seen this many at once. They said they had found a lot of roots due to the auspicious tiger tracks, and thanked their god Amba.</p>

    <p class="ind">Both Aktanka and Olga are Udege, the most devoted tiger worshippers among the indigenous Ussuri. Of the Udege, they belong to the Kimonko clan, who live on the Horr River. Aktanka had a Chinese father, but his Nanai mother belonged to the Aktanka clan. He should have inherited his father’s last name, but he went with Aktanka anyway.</p>

    <p class="ind">There’s an interesting Aktanka fable: Long ago, a Nanai traveled deep into the mountains to hunt. He had to hunt through the winter, so he brought along his daughter to cook for him. They stayed in a lodge and hunted for a long time. One day, the father returned early from his hunting to see a tiger coming out of the lodge. He rushed into the lodge to find his daughter unharmed. The following year, the daughter had a son. The father named his grandson Aktanka, “born from a tiger.” This boy was the progenitor of the Aktanka clan. The origin of the patrilineal line is a tiger.</p>

    <p class="ind">Aktanka and Kimonko were worried about their son. He had moved to the city and would not return even though he struggled in poverty. He hadn’t been able to adapt to city life, but he wouldn’t return to be a ginseng gatherer either. The police sometimes called them about him. He was once beaten to a bloody pulp by gang members and hospitalized.</p>

    <p class="ind">Olga had had a dream before giving birth to the twins:</p>

    <p class="noindsb">I was fishing on a river and I kept hearing birds singing. I looked around and spotted a white bird sitting on a large willow near the river. I bowed and paid my respects to the bird because it was the spirit of the willow. But when I looked up again, the bird had disappeared. Just then, the willow split in two to reveal a baby inside. I had such high hopes because the twins were willow <em>ado.</em></p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>EACH TIME THE</small> couple mentioned their son they used the word <em>ado</em>, Nanai for “twin” or “twins.” The indigenous Ussuri have a tradition of twin worship. They believe one in a pair of twins is a gift from the spirits. Olga believed without an inch of doubt that one of her twins was a gift from the spirit of the willow.</p>

    <p class="ind">In Nanai myths, many heroes are born as ado<em>.</em> Long ago, they believe, there were three suns. All creatures died under the heat and the forest was charred black. Even fish died in the too-hot water. Finally, the spirits of the land and water took pity and sent a pair of ados.</p>

    <p class="ind">One morning the ados went to the spot where the three suns rose, shot two down with their bows and arrows, and left one for the living creatures on land and in water. Since then, living things have been breathing fresh air and drinking cool water.</p>

    <p class="ind">Ados were heroes in the past, but today, they’re no different from other indigenous Ussuri who are trying to get by. Indigenous communities in Ussuri have been dissolved, their members scattered and burdened by a broken sense of identity. The changes that led to this crisis began in the nineteenth century.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the turmoil of the Taiping Rebellion and the Opium Wars in the nineteenth century, the Han migrated to Manchuria in great numbers, assimilating the Manchurians to Han culture and weakening the solidarity among the indigenous tribes in the region. By the end of the century, over 80 percent of the population of Manchuria was of Han descent.</p>

    <p class="ind">The sheer number of immigrants from China presented a problem, but more concerning was the kind of immigrants who ended up in Manchuria: illegal ginseng gatherers, miners in the up-and-coming gold mining craze, vagabond poachers, and infamous bandits. Manchuria soon became a safe haven for Chinese criminals.</p>

    <p class="ind">When Russians began to push down from the north by invading Ussuri, the Udege and Nanai were threatened from both sides. The Russians chased them south, and the Chinese immigrants pushed them north.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Udege and the Nanai were good targets for exploitation by the Russian merchants who came to Ussuri. The Russian merchants used the same tactics they’d perfected on the indigenous Siberians: provide them with cheap mass-produced goods and vodka in exchange for quality fur. The Udege and Nanai fell under the spell of vodka, and alcoholism ruined the lives of these hardworking, generous people. The Russian merchants’ abuse of their trade relationship so thoroughly ruined the Udege and Nanai that in 1912, Nicholas II of Russia banned all fur trade activities.</p>

    <p class="ind">But the Chinese merchants were a far worse influence: they subdued the Udege and Nanai with alcohol and opium. To get their fix, many native Ussuri with alcohol and substance dependency had to put down their next year’s hunt as collateral. Within a year, the interest on their loans reached 300 percent. Chinese merchants kidnapped the wives and daughters of the native Ussuri who could not pay off their debts and sold them or made them concubines. If any debt was still left to settle, they enslaved the men. The Chinese involved in these activities were mostly bandits or criminals who imposed harsh punishments if the native Ussuri did not comply. The Ussuri who were sold in China as consorts or wives gave birth to a great number of biracial children. In China, they were referred to as <em>tazhi</em>. Rejected by both the Chinese and the Ussuri, the tazhi were never given the chance to develop a strong sense of cultural belonging. They wandered the Ussuri area without a community to keep them grounded.</p>

    <p class="ind">But this exploitation and plunder were nothing compared to the diseases introduced by the Russian and Chinese outsiders. With no immunity resistance to fight off these new viruses, countless native Ussuri died from smallpox and other diseases. The surviving Udege and Nanai moved deeper into the forest to protect their culture and lifestyle by avoiding contact with the outside world.</p>

    <p class="ind">The October Revolution in 1917 instigated a five-year civil war that ended with a victory for the revolutionaries and the birth of the Soviet Union. Ussuri now belonged to the socialist regime and was consequently subject to Lenin’s Russification policy. During this period, the native Ussuri were forced to integrate into Soviet society and its political system.</p>

    <p class="ind">Russification, notably, banned nomadic lifestyles and folk religions and advocated for building settlements and consolidating scattered villages. Lenin’s nationalist policy, characterized by integration, collectivization, and anti-shamanism, reached its climax in the 1930s under Stalin’s rule and continued into the 1980s when Mikhail Gorbachev was the general secretary of the Communist Party. Nearly all socialist agendas were pushed uniformly without regard for the traditions of the native people or the environment. These policies succeeded in dismantling the very foundation of native Ussuri communities.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Soviet Union’s first move in implementing Russification was to prohibit nomadic lifestyles, forcing the natives to settle in a fixed place. Small clans of nomads and hunters were consolidated into reservations. The Nanai who lived in a hundred different regions across Ussuri were forced into twenty reservations. Hunting clans spread all across Ussuri were forced into one village. Once the consolidation began, the main grazing fields, hunting grounds, and livestock of the Ussuri became Soviet property.</p>

    <p class="ind">In 1922, animism, totemism, and shamanism were officially banned. It was illegal to hold shamanic rituals, carry a drum, or wear special costumes and accessories. The Soviet atheists who believed in materialism considered the nature-focused religions of the natives harmful and determined that they should be thoroughly stamped out. Government officials failed to comprehend what animist and shamanic rituals meant to the Ussuri, who were highly specialized in nomadic herding and hunting. Anti-animism and anti-shamanism policies were tantamount to ripping the souls from the Ussuri.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the wake of these changes, serious problems began to surface within Ussuri society. Russian culture was imposed on children from an early age, starting with childcare facilities and schools. While parents were out grazing livestock or hunting, children of Ussuri learned the Russian language and culture. They were given no opportunity to learn about the Ussuri culture or way of life. Russian culture was imposed on Ussuri children from such a young age that they grew up speaking Russian as their dominant language. Starting in 1936, all men of a certain age, regardless of race, were conscripted under Stalin’s constitution, and a multiracial army was formed. Most of the soldiers whom young native Ussuri men interacted with in the army were Slavic Russians, which meant a further infusion of Russian language and culture.</p>

    <p class="ind">While it’s true that the young Ussuri people were able to take advantage of Soviet-provided education, medical care, job opportunities, and other conveniences, they gained these things at the cost of their close relationship with nature. They also lost pride for their culture. The characteristic sense of community for hunters and nomads also faded and was replaced with vodka-induced alcoholism and lethargy, an increase in violence and suicide due to their loss of identity, and other societal problems. The rift between the older generation who continued to practice traditional religion and the younger generation immersed in Russian culture continued to widen.</p>

    <p class="ind">After the fall of the Soviet Union, the Bear Festival was revived. A yearly ritual held at the beginning of the hunting season in which the blood or a part of the first hunted bear of the year is buried, the Bear Festival allows hunters to repent for taking animals’ lives and pray for a good year of hunting. However, the young Nanai and Udege thought of the festival as nothing more than an opportunity for singing and dancing. Only the older generation understood the religious meaning behind the ritual. One native Ussuri writer mourned this phenomenon: “A culture that has lost its memories is a culture destined to disappear. Such indolence is the cause of a culture’s decay.”</p>

    <p class="ind">It wasn’t until 1985, when Mikhail Gorbachev became the general secretary of the Communist Party, that the truth about the native Ussuri came to light. Gorbachev’s perestroika and glasnost eventually led to reform policies aimed at improving the lives of native populations. In 1990, the Association of the Peoples of the North of the USSR was founded (later renamed the Russian Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North), and the Supreme Soviet agreed to permanently return Ussuri’s Samarga region, the main Udege homeland, to the Udege. The survival of the last animist peoples wandering the Ussuri forest was thus guaranteed. This was an important historical moment that carried great symbolic significance for the native Ussuri. The Nanai, Ulchi, Gilyak, and other native tribes soon also had parts of their forests and rivers returned to them, similar to the way American Indians were given back small pieces of their land in the form of reservations.</p>

    <p class="ind">In this environment, once-threatening elements of native culture came to be seen in a new light. Animism gained a new status as a pantheic gesture of humility; it meant acceptance of the fact that humans cannot survive without nature and advocated that we live harmoniously with all creatures on earth. Shamans, once derided as quack doctors, became acknowledged for their understanding of nature and their wisdom to provide spiritual guidance for native members living in the modern world, and they were elevated as leaders of their communities.</p>

    <p class="ind">The modern history of Ussuri is a story of cultural invasion brought on by misguided applications of ideology. The fate of the native Ussuri was not much different from that of American Indians and Africans, as imperialist nations divided up the land that had been occupied by indigenous peoples for thousands of years and claimed it as their own. The indigenous communities in Ussuri were first trampled upon by imperialism and then sacrificed by socialism. The Ussuri, who maintained a close tie with nature instead of ideology, were robbed of their way of life.</p>

    <p class="ind">The old Udege still joke about the good old days when their communities were so numerous that the white tundra swans migrating from Kusun River to Olga Bay would turn black as they flew through the plumes of smoke rising from yurts<em>.</em> Hundreds of thousands of indigenous peoples lived in Ussuri until the mid-nineteenth century, but only ten thousand remain today. The culture that once flourished is now becoming a myth, departing this world side by side with the Ussuri tiger the people worship.</p>

    <p class="ind">Still, the ginseng-gatherer couple continued to work in nature and protect their culture. Both descendants of tribes that worship tigers, Aktanka and Olga Kimonko had similar reverence for tigers and nature. Tanya had decided to stay in the village, unlike many other young Ussuri who leave for the cities, and maintain her close relationship with nature. She would inherit this spirituality and way of life from her parents. It was a comfort to know that the culture of the native Ussuri lived on.</p>

   

  
  </body>
</html>