<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-14">CHAPTER 11</h1>

    <h1 class="chaptit">Hotel Construction</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>IT SEEMED LIKE</small> only yesterday that I’d heard cuckoos by day and jungle nightjars by night, yet the fall had found the Ussuri forest as swiftly as the wind. A herd of Ussuri deer in search of mates splashed across the blue river, and Manchurian wapitis on a cliff bellowed in the silver moonlight. The season of procreation had come for these animals—a time of instinct, seduction, and passing on the gene. In September, even the creatures hurrying along mountain paths stopped to listen to these cries. With the reddening leaves, the year was already in its twilight.</p>

    <p class="ind">The time had come to choose a stakeout spot. The nut pine forest on Crow Mountain would be good, and the wild walnut forest in Deer Valley, which had also had a fruitful year, was worth considering. The forest of oaks in Santago or Dipiko would be ideal, and Urine Rock on the way up to the Dragon Spine wouldn’t be bad either. The upstream region of Siaoka River was probably not a great choice because we hadn’t found any traces of tigers there during our summer expeditions. The northern region of the coastal ridge was not ideal because the oaks there were in their off year, but the southern region was a strong candidate thanks to the year’s bumper crop of acorns.</p>

    <p class="ind">The key was to focus on where the tigers were likely to be in the winter months rather than locations they had frequented in the spring and summer. Stefanovich and I scoped out a few places, but ultimately decided on three areas: Diplyak (warm even in the winter) Beach on the eastern coast, Azalea Cliff, and Deer Valley, located inland.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Diplyak Basin faces south and, true to its name, really is warm even in the winter; the thick oak colony there had produced abundant acorns that year. Ungulates would appear often once it got cold, and so would Bloody Mary to hunt them. We chose two locations for the stakeout: one on the beach where the waves had carved a three-meter cliff into the wooded area over the years, and one in the oak forest in the basin.</p>

    <p class="ind">Azalea Cliff is a treacherous rock mountain, a difficult place to build a bunker. But Bloody Mary had to pass over it to get to the coastal basin, and I really wanted to see a wild tiger walking along a cliff adorned with azaleas, like the ones I knew from the east coast of Korea. So we decided to put a bunker on Azalea Cliff.</p>

    <p class="ind">Deer Valley, which unfurls inland from Crow Mountain, is populated with many deciduous and coniferous trees such as wild walnut, oak, nut pine, and fir, forming a superb, sun-dappled mixed forest. It’s a good habitat for deer and wild boars and has long been called Deer Valley thanks to the Ussuri deer that prefer dense forests with even terrain. Bloody Mary had to go through Deer Valley to travel from the east coast to the south of the Dragon Spine. We marked out a spot for a bunker by the path upstream from Deer River, one of Bloody Mary’s routes.</p>

    <p class="ind">Now that we had chosen the areas, we had to pick the exact spots to dig the bunkers. For this, we needed to refer to the detailed eco-maps we had made. The large-scale eco-map charted the tigers’ territories in their entirety and helped us identify good stakeout spots, while the small eco-maps, which contained comprehensive data on the migration routes of animals and topographical characteristics of the area, were ideal for finding optimal bunker locations. The small eco-maps contained a lot of useful information about tiger paths. Tigers approach an area through many paths, and we ranked them each according to probability of a tiger encounter. We did the same for ungulate paths as well. Sometimes, ungulate paths are harder to predict than tiger paths because, compared to tigers, ungulates travel in more erratic patterns.</p>

    <p class="ind">We had to consider the camera angle very carefully. Cameras must be guaranteed an unobstructed view of the tiger’s path and territory from the bunker. For example, the forest of young pines by the Diplyak Basin was a likely place for tigers to rest, and the cameras and bunker there had to be positioned at the same level as the path, or slightly higher, so that we could capture the surrounding trees and shrubs and watch the pine forest without having the view obstructed by the wild reeds. At the same time, the bunker had to blend in with the natural surroundings. It’s not easy to find a spot that is secluded enough, yet also has a clear view. Our final consideration was about environmental impact; the area had to be restored to its original condition after the stakeout period to minimize damage on the natural surroundings.</p>

    <p class="ind">We started building the bunkers in the coastal areas. It generally takes four to five days to build a bunker, so we camped out in tents for a few days during the construction period. We were anxious that the tigers might find out what we were up to, so we tried to get the job done as quickly and efficiently as possible. We kept noise down to a minimum when we were digging or talking to each other, and we wrapped things up by four in the afternoon when tigers become more active. If the tigers were to hear us, hide themselves in a nearby bush, and watch what we were doing, they would change their migration routes and all our work would be a waste. When we build bunkers, we also stay aware of the tigers’ whereabouts, however approximate. Bloody Mary was inland with her cubs at the moment, so it was the perfect time for us to build bunkers in the coastal regions.</p>

    <p class="ind">We called our underground bunkers “hideouts” or “hotels.” Naming them something pleasant helped ease the discomfort of our extended confinement. We tried to make the inside of our bunkers as comfortable as the inside of hotel rooms. To survive the long stakeout period of over six months, we arranged things efficiently in the cramped spaces and insulated them meticulously to keep out the northwesterly winds, which could drop to as low as -30°C to -40°C in the winter.</p>

    <p class="ind">Most of our hotels measured 2 by 2 meters with a 1.8-meter-high ceiling. We had to stoop a little when standing up, and our heads and toes touched the walls when we lay down. If the conditions didn’t allow for a bunker that size, we sometimes made them half as small. We called these little bunkers “motels.” They were so cramped that whoever was assigned to them had to curl up in a ball to sleep every night for six months. It would be too taxing to endure six months of winter in a space smaller than that.</p>

    <p class="ind">Even though the bunkers were small, their construction required more building material than one would think. We transported our basic equipment and materials from our base camp to the bunker site, but most of the building supplies came from the surrounding area. We couldn’t have transported everything to the forbidding terrains where the bunkers were built, since we would have had to carry those supplies through many parts of the journey. There were already useful building supplies in the forest or on the beach. We found fallen tree branches that hadn’t rotted through yet and collected ship masts or pine panels washed up on the shore.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once we had our materials ready, we dug a trench of 2 by 2 by 1.8 meters and put poles in the four corners. We usually built the bunkers on slopes, so the 1.8-meter poles went all the way into the ground in the back, but only 1.4 meters deep in the front. This was where we built a 50-by-40-centimeter entrance. We then made a roof from branches and pine boards and reinforced the inner walls with wooden panels so they wouldn’t cave in. We installed a raised bed 60 centimeters above the floor in the back half of the space.</p>

    <p class="ind">Now that the basic structure was ready, it was time to work on the interior. First, we wallpapered the rectangular frame of tree trunks and pine panels with blankets and cardboard boxes that didn’t smell of chemicals. We then installed shelves on the left, right, and back walls. The shelves on either side were for food, cooking utensils, and other things we would use every day, and the back shelves were for books or equipment that wouldn’t be necessary right away. The space under the bed was chosen as a storage space for fuel and an excrement container. But not everything could be stored in the open. Batteries quickly lose their charge and drinking water tends to freeze in cold weather, so we dug holes on either side of the bunker, insulated them with plastic foam, and stored these items there. Filming equipment is vulnerable to humidity, so we strung up about ten bags of silica gel from the ceiling, making the space look like a shaman’s hut.</p>

    <p class="ind">I placed the tripod near the entrance, attached the camera, and sat the way I would if I were filming. I built another shelf in easy reach from that position and set the filming equipment there. That way, if a tiger appeared, I could easily grab a spare battery or tape. Since I couldn’t have the light on in pitch darkness, I had to keep things within reach or I might drop something while fumbling around and give myself away to the tigers. It was important to remember where things were and to always put them back in the right place. Things that might roll off the shelf were hung on a nail in the wall. I put seven nails in the wall, numbered them one through seven, and memorized what was hung where. I also put myself through darkness training by grabbing things with my eyes closed. If I wasn’t vigilant about these minor things, it could lead to bigger problems later.</p>

    <p class="ind">We draped three layers of thick blankets over the entrance and made a thirty-centimeter hole in the horizontal middle of each for the camera lens. The holes in the first and third blankets were also dead center vertically, while the hole in the second was offset ten centimeters lower. That way, when the camera lens was in place, the blankets kept the air out so the inside of the bunker remained well insulated and not as exposed. The earth-tone colors and leopard print of the blankets blended in with the natural surroundings. Pine panels were nailed together to make a door that fit the opening perfectly. The door doubled as a dining table by day.</p>

    <p class="ind">While one team was on stakeout, the other team remained at base camp and delivered supplies to the stakeout posts and studied animal tracks. These tasks were also important. We used the lodge in Petrova as a provisional base camp in addition to the one in Kievka, and the Ural base camp was in constant operation. We alerted each other whenever something happened. Beside each bunker, we installed a small antenna camouflaged as a branch so that we could communicate between the stakeout bunkers and the base camp. Since the camera in the bunker could see only what was in front of it, we also installed three small cameras aimed at the sides and rear of each bunker.</p>

    <p class="ind">Our last step was to camouflage the exterior of the bunkers. It was just as important to make the bunkers inconspicuous from the outside as it was to stop scents, sounds, and light from escaping from the inside. We planted bushes on both sides of the entrances and insulated the roofs and side panels with several layers of plastic before burying each bunker under a generous layer of dirt. It was warmer that way. We sprinkled the dirt layer with leaves and added an old fallen log on top; with that, the bunker camouflage was complete. It was good enough to fool the animals that frequented the area.</p>

    <p class="ind">It took all of September to build the four bunkers where we would spend two winters over two years staking out in those locations. Nervous that the tigers would pay us a visit while we were working on the bunkers, I felt relieved once the preparations were done. No amount of camouflage could completely erase the footprints or scents of humans. It would take the first snow to finally wipe all scents and tracks clean. By then, each hotel would be part of a snowy landscape, and the insides would be as cozy as a bear’s den.</p>

   

  
  </body>
</html>