<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-15">CHAPTER 12</h1>
  

    <h1 class="chaptit">Cold Weather, Green Pines</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>AN EAGLE PERCHED </small>on top of a tree. The feathers on its back fluttered in the wind. In the fall, the fish swim against the current, but the birds turn their backs to the wind. A badger crossed a log bridge over the brook to dig through leaves for food, and an Asian black bear climbed nut pines to gather pine nuts. Animals preparing for hibernation busied themselves in the autumn forest, trying to accumulate that extra ounce of fat for the winter. In a single leaf falling on a windless day, time folded its long stretch into a moment and slipped past right before my eyes.</p>

    <p class="ind">It was early October, and the stakeout phase had begun. It was cozy here in the two-square-meter underground bunker in Diplyak Basin. The beginning is always exciting. Sitting still and watching nature sounds very romantic. But after fifteen years of staking out in underground bunkers, I felt that “routine” had replaced “romantic” as the more fitting adjective.</p>

    <p class="ind">While many researchers study the flora and fauna of the forests and record the traces animals leave, that is only the first half of my research. The second half is to observe and record the lives that leave those traces. The second phase, the stakeout, is the main part of my work.</p>

    <p class="ind">You can see and experience a good deal of nature simply by being in the mountains. You can watch blue-and-white flycatchers or squirrels. You can feel the wind in your hair and savor the experience of being in the forest. These little joys are uplifting in themselves. But if you want to access the intimate depths of nature, you must become a tree on a slope. If you wait patiently and are as still and quiet as a tree, nature will show its soft underbelly. What daily headaches do chipmunks and blue-and-white flycatchers deal with? How do trees and the forest change clothes with the seasons? How does the wind turn from friend to foe, and when does the fog come for a visit and how long does it stay? Only when you become a part of nature does nature reveal the answers to these personal questions.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers leave traces of their activities in the forest that teach us a great deal about them. But that is not the same as seeing a tiger. Unless you’re very lucky, the tiger always senses your presence and leaves before you have the chance to catch up with it. To see a tiger, you must stay in one spot. Instead of chasing after it, you must wait for it to come to you. The tiger sees you when you’re traveling around on expedition research, but you see the tiger when you’re hidden in one spot on stakeout research. During expeditions, I become an agent, but during stakeouts, I am one with the subject. As an agent, I can cover a great area but miss some details. As a subject, I cannot cover a great area, but I see the details up close.</p>

    <p class="ind">Staking out in nature requires endurance and self-restraint. You must take the time to acclimate to the nature around you or you’ll feel restless and claustrophobic. Staking out involves being confined to a two-square-meter underground cell in -30°C weather for six months, unable to take a shower, shout, or turn the light on. Willingly taking on the challenge is the first step to becoming one with nature.</p>

    <p class="ind">You must have faith. Walking through the woods, you often come across owl pellets, small masses of indigestible bones and feathers that have been regurgitated by the bird at the foot of a tree. When you find one of these, you know an owl is sitting on a branch over your head, looking down at you. You may be overcome by the urge to look up and see the owl for yourself. But the moment you give in and look up, the owl will fly away. I trust the owl is up there and continue on my way. This way, the forest avoids a small disturbance and maintains its peace. Trusting an animal is there by looking at its traces rather than pursuing the animal itself: this is faith in nature.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once you begin to lose faith, a spark of doubt appears. If an animal doesn’t show up when it’s supposed to, you become anxious. As you explore every possible scenario, ranging from the reasonable to the extraordinary, your common sense comes undone. Your objectivity dissolves and fuels the doubt with disquiet and irritation. This happens in an instant. And that’s when the researcher bursts out from the stakeout bunker.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>TWENTY-ONE DAYS</small> in, and snow fell relentlessly, like feathers from the sky.</p>

    <p class="ind">I heard the slushy sound of snow melting in the ocean. The beach was buried under a white blanket. Waves rushed in and licked at the edges. Thick piles of snow grew on every coniferous tree branch, plopped to the ground, and grew again.</p>

    <p class="ind">The wind gained momentum and sent the falling snowflakes whirling through the air. Each year at the end of October, it’s as if the door to a massive ice cave opens and cold winds rush out from within. The Ussuri refer to this northwesterly wind as “white hair wind,” and I imagine a witch with white unkempt hair who flies four thousand kilometers to the east and south, driving the snow. The rivers freeze solid, the forest is buried in snow, and the six months of winter begin.</p>

    <p class="ind">The northwesterly wind from Siberia meets with the air currents coming off of the East Sea to decide the Ussuri winter weather. Stronger northwesterly winds bring a cold winter, while a stronger easterly wind brings a mild one. If the two collide, it snows. The first snow is usually just a dusting, but this winter was starting off with a snowstorm.</p>

    <p class="ind">It was the first day of November. The moon was bright. It must have been the full moon, or maybe just after; the moon looked a little dented. Under its light, the snowfield was as bright as a field of fireflies. The moonbeam struck the thicket from an angle, bathing one side with light and casting a shadow on the other. A clean line was drawn between light and dark. Each time the wind blew, snowflakes on the bushes became airborne and then fell on their own shadows.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the bushes, orbs of light danced in midair. Moments later, small furry raccoons rolled out onto the forest path and blinked their shiny eyes. They moved along haltingly, looking out for danger. Their round shadows waddled along behind them on the white snow. Having traded their summer coats for thick winter ones, they all looked fluffy. The brave father led his two chubby children, followed by their mother, whose thick rings around her eyes looked like sunglasses. She doddered along, watching their backs. Their den must have been nearby. I often saw them scampering down this forest path to hunt for food an hour or two after sundown. “Hunting” isn’t the right word to describe what they did: they rooted through the forest all night, eating everything they could get their paws on, and returned home at dawn.</p>

    <p class="ind">As the raccoon family disappeared from view, leaving behind an echo of paws crunching against snow, the Eurasian eagle owl began to hoot. The sometimes whining, sometimes beguiling messages exchanged between owls filled the empty basin: <em>Have you had dinner? I love you still.</em> An owl occasionally spread its big, light-soaked wings and cast a dark shadow on the ground as it flew soundlessly over the basin. If an owl hooted in the south, another would hoot in the north. Two hoots in the south, two hoots in the north. Then one owl flew over to the other and went <em>whoo whoo whoo</em>. The other owl responded with a nasal <em>aaaah.</em> The Eurasian eagle owls were mating. Their coitus was brief, and after it was over, the basin fell suddenly into silence. I tensed up and peered into the viewfinder, wondering if a tiger had appeared. It was quiet all around. The only movement was the wind, which blew through the basin and shook the bushes.</p>

    <p class="ind">I was just learning to tell different waves apart by their sound. Today’s pattern: three or four sets of six small waves followed by a big one, and then one set of five small waves followed by a big one. Repeat. Listening to the sound of the same waves at the same spot for over a month, I could hear the difference between the small and large ones. This was a sign that I was adapting to stakeout life.</p>

    <p class="ind">When I first came to live in the bunker, I enjoyed listening to the waves. I felt like I was on vacation. But two weeks later, I started to get sick of them. I thought, <em>Can’t someone turn off that monotonous droning?</em> I became irritable. But at a certain point, I stopped hearing them. The waves were always rumbling and crashing in my ear, so I drowned them out. Now I found myself unconsciously counting waves. I would lie wide awake in the cold, silent bunker and count, <em>One, two, three...</em></p>

    <p class="ind">During the day, I spent my time deciphering different winds by their sound. Sometimes I heard what sounded like a raging torrent, and other times whizzing arrows, the sound of a baby breathing, or the ocean rumbling.</p>

    <p class="ind">I also tried to guess how strong the wind was by looking at snowflakes through the viewfinder. When the snowflakes fell in a straight vertical line, the wind was at zero on the Beaufort scale. At one, the snowflakes fluttered. At two, they fell diagonally. At four, the wind swept the snowflakes off the ground, and at seven, the snowflakes flew horizontally. The world looked like the scene inside a snow globe when the wind was at eight.</p>

    <p class="ind">I ran out of things to read, so I read the label on a can of green tea:</p>

    <p class="blockquote1"><small>INGREDIENTS</small>: 50% green tea leaves, 50% organic brown rice (grown in Korea)</p>

    <p class="blockquoteno"><small>NET WEIGHT</small>: 37.5g (1.5g x 25 tea bags)</p>

    <p class="blockquoteno"><small>FOOD TYPE</small>: Tea</p>

    <p class="blockquoteno"><small>PACKAGING</small>: Filter paper—100% natural pulp, box—SC Manila Price: 2,500 won</p>

    <p class="blockquoteno">Store in a cool, dry place for best flavor.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>I NEVER USED</small> to pay attention to green tea labels because the world is full of more interesting things to read, but in the bunker, this was entertainment.</p>

    <p class="ind">I read and re-read the books I had brought. The quality of the book didn’t matter. What was important was that there was reading material at all. Any book you read many times over will seem like great literature. You start to see the thought and care that went into its creation. I was grateful to all writers who ever wrote.</p>

    <p class="ind">I boiled water in a small kettle and melted a ball of rice that had frozen solid. I had seaweed, dried fruit, and jerky with the rice. Stinky food was prohibited. We would never be able to hide the smell from the sharp noses of tigers. Out in the world we may be picky eaters, but in the bunker, we were just grateful that we had enough food—just as we were happy to have anything to read.</p>

    <p class="ind">Life in the bunker helped sort out what was important and what was not. What the world considered important seemed trivial in here, and what was trivial out there was revealed to be truly important here. In a bunker, you learn to differentiate between the essential and the superfluous, the meat and the shell, the real and the fantastical.</p>

    <p class="ind">When people are ailing or inches away from death, they turn to religion. They can see what was or wasn’t important in life. Something similar happens on stakeout: in the bunker, you can feel the end of your life coming toward you one step at a time like the firm footsteps of the Ussuri tiger. It’s an experience that encourages you to do the things you want to do before your life is over.</p>

    <p class="ind">Caught in the web of life, it’s hard to separate the details from the crucial points. Being cut off from the world gives you the space to reflect and remember, just as one notices the green of the pines only after it has grown cold.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>