<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-16">CHAPTER 13</h1>
    

    <h1 class="chaptit">The Challenge and Response of the Ussuri Forest</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>AT SOME POINT</small>, a few mice began frequent- ing the hotel. There were four of them one day, and one was a bit large. They appeared to be a family of three siblings and their mother. They were striped field mice, golden brown with black stripes running down their backs. Unlike most rodents, field mice don’t store food for the winter and must instead resort to searching for food in the freezing cold. The warmth of the bunker and the smell of food must have lured them in from the frozen ground—or perhaps I was the one invading striped field mouse territory.</p>

    <p class="ind">I started to observe and record the mice’s behavior. The largest of the four bored a hole in the wall and peeked out. The others were busy ripping bits off the blankets we had used to painstakingly line the bunker walls and were carrying them back to their nest. The large one climbed down the wall. It sniffed and examined the back shelf where the books and video cables were. Mice are very fond of chewing on video cables. I suppose it’s nice to have some soft plastic after gnawing on hard wood.</p>

    <p class="ind">The large mouse crawled along the wall, hopped onto the side shelf, and beelined for the spot where the green tea, dried seaweed, and meat jerkies were stored. She had a keen sense of smell. The lids were shut, so she started to chew her way into the containers. I reached out and offered her a bit of rice ball. She darted back about a meter, then turned to look at it. After assessing the situation, she returned to eat the rice ball. The others hesitated for a moment before they came crawling up as well. They were brazen.</p>

    <p class="ind">The mice already knew where everything was located inside the bunker. Instead of wandering around in search of what they needed, they went straight to the spot where they knew they would find what they were looking for. When they were hungry, they went to the side shelf where the food was. When they were thirsty, they crawled under the bed where the water was stored, and when they wanted to grind their teeth, they climbed onto the back shelf where the video cables were. People think of apes and dolphins when they think of the most intelligent animals, but I think rodents might be pretty smart, too.</p>

    <p class="ind">The striped field mice began to play, but froze when they noticed me looking at them. They observed my pupils, movement, and energy and tried to predict my next move. Was I going to get up? If I stayed still, they resumed their fun. They ran around the bunker and dove off the shelves onto the soft goose-down sleeping bag. They were the bunker comedy routine. Entertainment. A source of comfort through the tedium of the stakeout.</p>

    <p class="ind">Yet the mice were getting too bold. They were fearless. I once did a similar stakeout underground in Korea, and I had found the striped field mice there behaved very differently from the ones in Ussuri. The Korean mice lived in a field near a village and were sensitive and wary. They appeared only when there were no signs of people, and once chased, they didn’t show themselves again for a few hours or even for a few days. Their long history of encounters with people and the harm they did conditioned the mice to be cautious.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Ussuri mice, on the other hand, must have had no such negative experiences with people. The bunker was in the wild, with only two or three villages within a fifty-kilometer radius. Wild animals rarely come across people, let alone those who sit underground in the dead of winter, so these mice didn’t have prior knowledge of how to behave under such circumstances. This was why they weren’t afraid of people. I was reminded of a Korean saying: “A newborn puppy knows no fear of a tiger.”</p>

    <p class="ind">The mice also made me think of a fox I had seen in the Kuril Islands. The arctic blue fox lives on an uninhabited island named Ushishir, located in the middle of the Kurils. The fur of this fox is white in the winter; in the summer, it is brown in the sunlight and gray-blue in the shade. It is a crossbreed of the arctic fox and the red fox that the Japanese army brought to Ushishir during World War II to produce fur for military use. The Japanese army retreated after the war, and the foxes have thrived for over sixty years in the wild without human interference.</p>

    <p class="ind">The arctic blue foxes had been less guarded than the Ussuri mice. When I approached, they came over to me to check me out instead of running away. When I explored their lair to film the kits, the fox mother regarded me with as much interest as a cow would give a chicken. One of the kits suckled on my finger. Being at the top of the food chain on an island uninhabited by humans, they had no reason to fear us. If humans were to encounter highly intelligent aliens, wouldn’t they behave like arctic blue foxes, too?</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>SIBERIAN TIGERS TODAY</small> are extremely cautious. They loathe interaction with humans and avoid all manmade structures and objects. Past records show that they haven’t always been this vigilant and circumspect. I wonder how much suffering the mighty tiger has been put through to become this way. Fortunately, despite years of hardship, some tigers survived. The ones that lived had ample experience with human threats and were in turn highly cautious. These tigers passed down their knowledge to their offspring along with the genes that allowed them to survive human attacks.</p>

    <p class="ind">When railroads and roads were first built in Siberian tiger territories, many tigers that had never seen trains or cars before were killed in accidents. The tigers that survived taught their cubs how to cross roads and railroads. <em>When a large thing that smells like metal is coming toward you, don’t cross. Cross at night when there are fewer large metal things coming and going. Even when you cross at night, cross only when there’s no light.</em> Thanks to generations of education and good genes, now there are next to no tiger roadkills unless the tiger is a very young cub or disabled, and Siberian tigers cross roads or railroads only at night when there are no lights.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tropical tigers are different. For them, the weather is mild and food is plenty, so they don’t need the expansive territories that Siberian tigers occupy. While a female Siberian tiger’s territory is on average 450 square kilometers, a female Bengal tiger has a territory of only about 20 square kilometers. This exposes Bengal tigers to more frequent encounters with humans, and they are thus less wary of people. One can easily observe wild tigers in India from a tour bus. Tigers saunter up and down manmade roads and nap in the shade on the side of the road. When people approach them in jeeps, they sometimes come over to sniff the vehicles and urinate on them.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bengal tigers have also suffered quite a bit at the hands of humans, but it has made them more aggressive rather than cautious. This may be the result of the tropical climate and the close proximity of tiger and human territories. When facing threats from humans, Bengal tigers prefer confrontation to ambush. And when a tiger is injured and unable to hunt, it becomes even more violent toward humans. The Champawat Tiger became famous for attacking 436 people up and down the India–Nepal border in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. A similar tiger appears in Rudyard Kipling’s <em>The Jungle Book—</em>a crippled tiger named Shere Khan who tries to eat Mowgli at every opportunity. Perhaps a real crippled tiger had been a model for the fictional one.</p>

    <p class="ind">A hundred years ago, guns were introduced as a revolutionary way to hunt tigers. The tigers were initially as unimpressed with guns as they had been with spears and arrows. They didn’t run very far at the sight of hunters, and when pursued, they fought back as they had before. Countless tigers died, and tigers slowly became alert to the dangers of guns. They became conditioned to fear the sound of gunshots and the smell of gunpowder.</p>

    <p class="ind">Except in extraordinary circumstances, the typical Siberian tiger today flees at the sound of a gun. It either runs far away or circles back to the poacher and attacks from behind. Tigers naturally came to favor ambush over confrontation. They learned to move more stealthily and to have fewer encounters with people. Poachers these days don’t get to see a single tiger, no matter how much they roam the woods with their high-performance magazine rifles. There are certainly fewer tigers than before, but the tigers have also adapted to their new circumstances.</p>

    <p class="ind">In response, the poachers began to install gun traps and special snares. Many Siberian tigers, most of them young with relatively little experience, were sacrificed to these contraptions. But the tigers found a way to avoid the traps as well. They learned to avoid or destroy all objects in the woods that smell like metal. When destroying a camouflaged gun trap, the tiger goes to the back of the gun, fires it by hitting the stock, and then breaks the gun. They learned this from the accumulated experience of being shot while fiddling with guns from the barrel end.</p>

    <p class="ind">To film tigers and ungulates, I have been installing cameras in the Ussuri forest for nearly ten years. The tigers found twenty-three of the cameras I’d fastidiously hidden, and destroyed them. I rubbed deer droppings on the small cameras, hoping to mask the metal scent, but they still managed to find and destroy nearly all of them. The act of destruction was never caught on tape, only the sound, because all the cameras were attacked from behind. The dark lens of the camera must have looked like a gun barrel to the tigers. The more experienced tigers were more adept at finding the cameras than the young ones, but all tigers, newly independent or mature, dismantled the cameras they found from the back. This is proof that mothers educate their young about guns from early on.</p>

    <p class="ind">We also found that male tigers were more likely to destroy cameras than female tigers—males tended to break cameras, whereas females preferred to avoid them. For the females that did destroy cameras, two out of three were accompanied by their cubs. While it’s hard to confirm on such a small sample size, it seems females traveling with their cubs tend to be more sensitive to danger and prefer to preemptively remove things that may pose a threat to their offspring.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers also destroyed sensors installed to trigger hidden cameras. There were about as many broken sensors as broken cameras, but a slightly different group of tigers were involved. Unlike cameras, sensors are made of plastic and therefore don’t smell like metal, and they’re less threatening to tigers because they don’t have dark lenses that resemble gun barrels. This may have been why a larger percentage of females and young male tigers broke the sensors.</p>

    <p class="ind">The safest bet with strange objects in the forest is to do as female tigers do and avoid them. Young tigers don’t have the experience to deal with strange objects when they encounter them, so they are most vulnerable. Safety awareness is most acute in mature females, followed by mature males, young females, and young males.</p>

    <p class="ind">Poachers are always coming up with new ways to hunt tigers. With the introduction of each new method, there are always tiger casualties, especially among cubs and young males. It was the same when the special snares and gun traps were first installed. It’s not easy for tigers to survive the period it takes to adapt. But the tigers eventually learn. Through their evolving knowledge, they find ways to protect their species against human attacks.</p>

    <p class="ind">The challenge and response of the Ussuri forest—the cutthroat fight for survival between man and tiger—continues.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>