<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-17">CHAPTER 14</h1>
    

    <h1 class="chaptit">White Moon, White Snow, White Sky</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE SEA HAD</small> been raging for a few days. Waves as big as houses crashed on the shore and roared as if they were prepared to fight to the death. Snowflakes whirled in the air. Caught in the strong winds, the heavy snow fell horizontally. The cold wind from Siberia met the humid air current of the East Sea to generate a snowstorm. Visibility was as low as a hundred meters. I filmed the snowy scenery and then crawled into my sleeping bag to curl up like a hibernating bear.</p>

    <p class="ind">The number of striped field mice had increased to seven or eight. They continued to grow ever bolder. One scaled my back and climbed to the top of my head, and two knocked a cup off the shelf while trying to crawl into it. I got up and clapped my hands hard, and they fell still instantly. I picked up the cup, wiped it clean, and put it back on the shelf. Bit by bit, I began to hear their little scuttles again. They were starting to become a problem. I’d stopped doling out snacks a few days earlier, but their numbers were still increasing too fast. It was a conundrum.</p>

    <p class="ind">Sometimes, the mice helped. I couldn’t sleep too deeply, because I never knew when a tiger would show up. I needed to be able to notice any subtle change in sound or movement and wake myself up instinctively. After midnight, however, I couldn’t help but fall deeper and deeper into sleep—until the mice came along and woke me up, that is. They pushed a roll of toilet paper off the shelf or fought over teaspoons. If that didn’t do the trick, they crawled all over my face.</p>

    <p class="ind">The mice also helped when I felt my heart was about to explode from unspeakable frustration. It calmed me to just watch the mouse circus romp about comically. The sounds of wind and waves assuaged some kinds of gloom, but the comedy show these little mammals put on also helped lift my spirits and distract me.</p>

    <p class="ind">The snow stopped in the afternoon. The wind calmed and the waves also regained their composure. The clouds rushed eastward. It was the backblast after the storm. Once the backblast drove all the clouds away, the cold Siberian Anticyclone would take its place and keep the weather clear for some time. During the storm, a large ship had dropped anchor about two kilometers away from the beach, and it hadn’t moved since the day before. I had been living in the bunker for two months, and this was the first time I had seen something like this.</p>

    <p class="ind">The next morning, I found a long trail of pugmarks on the beach. A tiger had passed by in the night while I was asleep. The tiger must have preferred the sand over the thirty centimeters of snow, for the prints were right at the edge of the beach where the waves had washed the snow away. From the looks of the clean pugmarks untouched by waves, the tiger had likely been there early in the morning after the tide had receded.</p>

    <p class="ind">I zoomed in on the pugmarks. I could see them better then, but I couldn’t tell their exact size through the viewfinder. They looked like they belonged to a male tiger, but I couldn’t be sure. I wanted to go down to the beach and examine them, but I restrained myself. I couldn’t set foot outside the bunker. The tiger might have still been around.</p>

    <p class="ind">I slowly turned the lens to look at the forest of young pines. Every branch was adorned with snow. There was a thinner layer of snow under the pine branches. Occasionally, snow slid off the branches and fell onto the ground, where it piled up into gentle hills. Apart from the trace of snow, the pine forest was undisturbed.</p>

    <p class="ind">I gave up trying to guess the identity of the tiger by looking at its pugmarks. I was lucky the tiger hadn’t sniffed out the bunker. Siberian tigers are generally nocturnal. They patrol their territories and hunt by night, then nap for several hours during the day on a sunny mountain ridge with a clear view of their surroundings. Up there, they track the migratory patterns of deer and wild boar and watch people’s activities. The tiger that had left those pugmarks that morning might have been sitting somewhere on a ridge above the coastal basin, looking down at the coast.</p>

    <p class="ind">The valley plunged deep toward the end of the mountain ridge that extended far beyond the basin. The wind echoed as it reverberated down the valley, carrying the scent of snow. The northern ridge was the path the northwesterly wind traveled, rousing yesterday’s snow like a dragon spiraling up to the sky each time the wind hit it. Beyond the whirlwinds, bright rays of sunlight glittered as they streamed down through the clouds. Moisture froze instantly and hung in the air. This is known as the diamond dust effect. Snowflakes and diamond dust flew in the air, sparkled like light through a prism, and slowly landed over the oak forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">To maintain a half-awake state at night, I must sleep during the day. I’ve done stakeouts for many years, but it’s challenging every time. This stakeout was almost at the two-month mark, but my mind and muscles had not yet completely adjusted to a stationary lifestyle. The active energy of the expedition period needed to be reined back to a calm, sedentary energy. But I remained curious about the owner of those pugmarks.</p>

    <p class="noindsb">Whoo... whoo...</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Gwuhh... gwuhh...</em></p>

    <p class="ind">A pair of eagle owls made a nest between the boulders somewhere on top of the mountain directly facing the bunker. I couldn’t hear their cries for a few days due to bad weather, but one night I heard the female asking the male for food. They must have started brooding after the recent mating period. Their exchange from when they first met until the female laid eggs sounded like <em>whoo whoo</em>. Now that they had mated and the eggs had been laid, the female’s <em>gwuhh gwuhh</em> sounded a bit like nagging. She was brooding and demanding food.</p>

    <p class="ind">The temperature dropped to -24°C. The days grew darker. I swapped out the day lens for the night lens. As usual, I kept my eye on the forest and beach through the viewfinder.</p>

    <p class="ind">A family of raccoons walked by. The mother trudged on, followed by two scuttling cubs. The father wasn’t around that day. The mother was doing a great job, as the fluffy, chubby cubs looked lovely each time I saw them.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Feeee... feeee...</em></p>

    <p class="ind">The mother raccoon, her voice too frail for her figure, was hurrying her cubs along when she suddenly stopped in her tracks and looked to her left. Her cubs were behind her, but she kept her eyes to the left. Suddenly, she darted for the dry bushes to her right. The cubs waddled after her. I slowly turned the lens to the left. About two hundred paces away, in the shadows of the forest of young pines, a large creature stood still. Behind the creature, something vine-like was waving. A chill crept over me. The large creature stepped out in great strides. It was a tiger. I calmed my quickening breath. I opened my eyes wide and looked again. It <em>was</em> a tiger. At last, a tiger had come. This unchanging fact sped the breath I managed to calm. I looked at the clock on the camera. It was November 27, 19:47.</p>

    <p class="ind">I slowly zoomed in, trying to steady my nerves. I saw its face. There was tension in its eyes. The thick fur around its neck indicated it was a male. Its shoulder blades were striking, but not large enough for a mature tiger. A young male! It was Bloody Mary’s son. He had returned to the Diplyak coast for the first time in three months. He was much larger than a fully grown female now. He also had the personality of a male tiger. He sniffed around the second he emerged from the forest of young pines, then headed around to the back of a small sensor hidden by the path, and broke it. He kept examining the area to see if there was anything unusual. I didn’t think he was particularly interested in where I was hiding, but he glanced in the direction of the bunker every now and then. The small plastic sensor that hadn’t been there before, the faint but foreign smells that permeated here and there—these little things combined gave the place a different feel than he remembered.</p>

    <p class="ind">The moon was hiding behind the clouds, blurring the image of the tiger through the night-vision UV camera. The camera now showed 19:51. The clouds suddenly parted and moonlight poured down. The full moon shone on the white snow and made everything clear. It was beautiful. Before me, the abyss of the East Sea glittered silver as it reflected the full moon, and all around, the snowy ridge embraced the coastal basin. The cries of eagle owls, the hallmark of nocturnal solitude, echoed from the frosty ridges and reverberated out to the far reaches of the East Sea.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>White moon. White snow. White sky,</em> I thought. White moon. White snow. White heaven and earth. And in the midst of it all stood a tiger. Bloody Mary’s proud son was bathed in moonlight. The frosty, white beauty gave me goosebumps.</p>

    <p class="ind">After the full moon emerged, the tiger turned and disappeared into the pine forest. The last I saw of him was his long tail knocking snow off a bush—19:53. I felt empty. It was as if a red tiger that had graced the middle of a traditional Korean watercolor of a snowy landscape had suddenly vanished. The moon sailed to the top of the sky, making the coastal basin increasingly brighter.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>ONE IN THE</small> morning. I opened my eyes at the sound of something treading on snow. The sound was coming from right near the bunker.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Crunch. Crunch.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">The sound was slow and deliberate, as if someone was pressing a large rubber ball into the snow. I held my breath and gently turned on the rear-view camera. A bleak light radiated from the small monitor; it stung my eyes. The screen came into view as my pupils contracted, and the camera displayed a soft silhouette. It was a tiger. Bloody Mary’s son was back. I saw other silhouettes behind him—two smaller female tigers. Their bodies were firm and fully grown. The beautiful tigers Bloody Mary had raised were now all grown up.</p>

    <p class="ind">The three siblings walked toward the bunker. The male led and the two females followed. I was on edge. My heart raced as they came closer. Had they picked up on my scent? I stared into the dark screen.</p>

    <p class="ind">But the male’s gaze was fixed on the sea, not the bunker. It was the ship! The tiger was watching it float offshore, waiting out the storm. I let out a sigh of relief. The three siblings stared, transfixed by the light coming from the vessel as they quietly walked toward the beach. When the male stopped, so did the females. They were now mere meters away from the bunker. Standing calmly, they kept their eyes on the water, their intense gazes absorbed by the silence of the night sea.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Hrrrdt... Hhhhh...</em></p>

    <p class="ind">One female made a whinnying sound, like a wild horse, and rubbed her face against the male’s neck. As if on cue, they all began to snort and rub their faces against each other’s necks. This behavior is a sign of affection among tiger family members.</p>

    <p class="ind">The male took a few steps toward me. <em>Plop!</em> I felt a great weight pressing down on the roof of the bunker. He was lying on the flat, snowy patch right above me. The pine roof bounced from the shock. My heart jumped as well. The females also lay down on the snow and resumed gazing out at the sea.</p>

    <p class="ind">The light from the ship docked far away flickered on the undulating waves. Mixed into the rhythmic beating of the waves was the sound of the tiger breathing, right above my head. It sounded like the winter wind whipping the branches, and I could hardly breathe myself.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Whooonnn...</em></p>

    <p class="ind">One female yawned like a housecat, and the other female followed. The male also yawned and rolled over. The roof bounced again. Completely unaware that there was a human under the ground below him, he enjoyed the night, rolling this way and that. The roof moved a little each time. It was only thirty centimeters thick, including the layer of dirt over the pine panels. Trying to be as quiet as the dead only made me breathe harder. Tiger and man breathed together, the tiger aboveground and the man below, with only thirty centimeters between them. We sat on a snowy seaside hill underneath the moonlight listening to the waves of the East Sea. A beast of the wild and a man from the secular world, sharing a moment—it seemed wrong. I felt apologetic toward Bloody Mary’s son for deceiving him.</p>

    <p class="ind">About ten minutes passed. Once their surroundings fell still, the mice came out to play again. They scurried about in search of food. I was nervous.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Please stop moving</em>, I pleaded inside my head. But the mice didn’t care, and they ran about, squeaking.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Please, mice...</em></p>

    <p class="ind">That moment, a mouse knocked a container off the shelf. Bloody Mary’s son jumped to his feet. A chill shot down my back. He started to walk. The roof moved again. The mice instantly fell silent.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Crunch. Crunch.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">I heard paws on snow. He was circling the bunker, sniffing the ground. He was just around the corner from the entrance, but he wouldn’t be able to get in through the narrow opening. I used this fact to comfort myself and pressed my hand against the wooden panel blocking the entrance behind the camouflage blankets. I used my free hand to grab the rope attached to the gun loaded with blanks.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Crunch. Crunch.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">He came closer, one step after the other, and stopped. He was standing at the entrance. Sound. Light. Breathing. Everything was still. But my heart beat faster and faster.</p>

    <p class="ind">I heard him exhaling sharply through his nose. My hairs stood on end, and my fingers involuntarily clenched the rope.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Tap. Tap.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">He knocked on the door with his snout. The touch of the tiger’s snout on the other side of the panel permeated through and coiled up the backs of my hands like a serpent. It took all the willpower I could muster to stop myself from firing the blank. If I fired the blank, everything we had worked for would have been for nothing. Once the tiger figured out that humans hid under layers of dirt that smelled like this, the stakeout here and all the bunkers we had built inland and along the shore would go to waste. If they found an area that smelled or looked even remotely like this bunker, they would cross it off their list and find a different migration route. Besides, there was no guarantee that firing the blank would save me. Most tigers run away when a blank is fired, but each tiger is different. Some attack, consumed with aggression.</p>

    <p class="ind">I let go of the rope, afraid I would pull it by accident. Still suspicious, the tiger continued to sniff at the entrance. The mice began to stir again. I was dying inside. Under such dire circumstances, the lives of the mice I’d done a decent job of pretending to respect seemed very expendable.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Hrrrdt hrrrdt... hhhhh...</em></p>

    <p class="ind">A female came over to the male and rubbed her neck against his. The male stopped sniffing the entrance and rubbed back, snorting. The male let his guard down. He walked off, and the others followed. My hand cramped. My chest tightened. Strength drained from every part of my body as I let out a long sigh. Not enough experience. I didn’t have enough experience, and neither did the tigers. Bloody Mary’s children weren’t veterans yet. Things would have been different if Bloody Mary had been there.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Graawr! Graawr!</em></p>

    <p class="ind">The male roared as he walked down the snowy field bathed with moonlight.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Grh-waa! Grh-waa!</em></p>

    <p class="ind">The reply came from the top of the mountain across the way. Bloody Mary! I quickly hit the record button and listened closely.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Graawr! Graawr!</em></p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Grh-waa! Grh-waa!</em></p>

    <p class="ind">Perhaps I was biased because I was aware of their relationship, but Bloody Mary’s cries struck me as more insistent, like a worried mother telling her children to come home, whereas her children’s cries sounded more passive and petulant, like children dragging their feet and grumbling about being called in for supper. The roars they exchanged carried far out to the East Sea over the sound of the majestic waves. The cries of the cute eagle owl couple that had filled the basin with life until evening could no longer be heard, and the sounds of paws crunching on snow and the tigers’ roaring and whining slowly grew distant. It was the night of Bloody Mary’s family. One son, two daughters. I named them: Wolbaek for the youngest, Seolbaek for her older sister, and Cheonjibaek for the firstborn son. “White Moon.” “White Snow.” “White Sky.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Names as beautiful as this night.</p>

   

    
  </body>
</html>