<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-18">CHAPTER 15</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Between Solitude and Passion</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>I FASHIONED A</small> mousetrap using the salt container and some jerky. The mice had never seen a trap before, so it was easy to catch them. I caught three in the morning and half a dozen more later in the day, and released them all in the snowy field. But the mice, armed with incredible willpower, came back. I made marks on their tails before I released them, so I knew they returned within twenty-four hours.</p>

    <p class="ind">I plugged the mouse hole. They dug another. I killed them. New ones took their place within a day or two. The elimination of an existing mouse population resulted in mouse migration from other territories, maintaining a carrying capacity of a dozen mice in the bunker. The precision of nature amazed me.</p>

    <p class="ind">(I later made a mousetrap for the next person to stake out in the bunker. He was puzzled and then amused when I told him the story. But once he experienced what I had, he became obsessed with catching mice. Instead of trapping them, though, he requested rat poison when he ordered supplies at the base camp. The mice had no experience with rat poison or any sort of built-up immunity to it. Like smallpox wiping out the native Ussuri, poison would eliminate mice from this area altogether. I tried to talk him out of using poison, but the mice were standing in line waiting to take over the utopia that was our bunker. What were we to do? We put our heads together and came up with a plan: Each time a tiger came by, we would put a rice ball at every mouse hole. This would keep them busy and quiet for the day.)</p>

    <p class="ind">Apart from the mice, the bunker was cozy and environmentally friendly. The air was fresh, the sounds of nature surrounded me, and I had plenty of natural light. It was a little cold and crowded—when I lay down, my head and feet touched the walls; when I stood up, I had to stay hunched over—but it was okay once I became used to it.</p>

    <p class="ind">This was a typical day in the bunker: I would wake up early in the morning when it was still dark out. I wouldn’t want to leave the warmth of the sleeping bag I had been heating with my body all night, but I would make myself get up. The cold would seep in through every pore. In the darkness, I’d find my bearings and reach for the power button on the little monitor. The screen would emit a dim light that filled the inside of the bunker. First, I would check the status of the cameras to make sure they hadn’t frozen overnight or become coated in frost or dew. The cameras were supposed to withstand cold up to -45°C, but it sometimes didn’t work. I would check the front and rear cameras for any nearby activity. If there were tiger or deer tracks, I would examine them closely.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once these essential items on the checklist were ticked off, I would open the bunker entrance and allow light into the interior. The relatively warm inside air would rush out, replaced by the -30°C air outside. I would get goosebumps as though my skin had just touched a frozen piece of metal. The cold always came at me like a wall of despair and made me feel small. Ventilation complete.</p>

    <p class="ind">The routine that followed was no different from what I did at home. If I were home, I would read the paper on the toilet and wash my face. I did more or less the same thing in the bunker. First, I would urinate. When I began this stakeout, I brought two fifty-liter tanks with me. One was for water and the other was for urine. The amazing thing was that the water tank emptied at the same rate as the urine tank filled up. Sometimes, I would have a bowel movement. I would deposit it on waterproof parchment paper, fold it up, and seal it in a plastic zipper bag. I would put this in a bigger zipper bag, blocking the smell under two layers of plastic, drop it in a large plastic pail, and close the lid. After that, I would wash my face like a cat: I’d put a bit of water on a towel and rub my face with it, then wipe my teeth with a piece of tissue paper. Brushing teeth was not allowed in the bunker because it required too much water and the smell of toothpaste could be a problem.</p>

    <p class="ind">Then it would finally be time for breakfast. I didn’t move very much inside the bunker, so two meals a day were enough. First, I’d pour some water into the kettle. If the bunker was sealed, the inside temperature stayed at -5°C to -7°C. When it was -30°C outside, however, the inside temperature couldn’t help but drop as well. This meant the water in the tank would freeze solid if left it on the ground. So the water tank was placed in a water storage unit, a hole in the ground lined with Styrofoam, and I would transfer small amounts of water to a bottle for daily use.</p>

    <p class="ind">Next, I would pull out the can of butane gas I kept warm in my sleeping bag like a hen brooding an egg. Gasoline burners work well in cold weather conditions, but they smell, so we used butane burners instead. Butane is scentless but freezes easily below zero, so I always slept with the can I planned to use the next day. I would shake the can, attach it to the burner, and click the igniter, and blue flames would spring up. I would put the little kettle on the burner to boil water, then pull out a frozen rice ball from a plastic bag and drop it in the boiling water. I assemble two hundred to three hundred rice balls individually wrapped in plastic bags before I begin a stakeout. They freeze solid, so I don’t need to worry about them going bad.</p>

    <p class="ind">When the rice ball defrosted and became warm, I would scoop it out of the kettle and eat it, washing it down with the remaining water. I drank green tea, rice tea, and other teas that don’t smell. I had to always be careful not to let the smell escape. It was the greatest hazard to bunker life. I would have jerky, seaweed, and salt with my rice and eat dried fruit and nuts for dessert. The food was plain, but I was already sated by being in nature. I would eat as the sun rose over the East Sea. Mealtimes were always fun.</p>

    <p class="ind">At 10 a.m. sharp, I would contact the base camp via radio. To prolong battery life, we communicated only on predetermined days every few days or few weeks, unless we had an urgent message. Because reporting on the movement of tigers was our first priority, our communications would always begin with news of the tigers. Next, I would update them on my food and battery supplies and order any items or equipment I wanted to include in the bimonthly supply run. Only then would we catch up on each other’s lives and exchange other news.</p>

    <p class="ind">Between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., I would take a nap. Tigers don’t like to be on the move in the middle of the day and usually nap during these hours as well. I would sleep even if I wasn’t sleepy so I could be half-awake at night and hear what was going on around me.</p>

    <p class="ind">I would take some time for my hobbies from 1 to 4 p.m. I would read, meditate, write in my journal, or play with the mice to relieve the stress of bunker life. Once I started to feel trapped, I knew a mental breakdown could be close behind. To keep my emotions steady, I had to relax and enjoy myself as much as possible.</p>

    <p class="ind">I’d look through the viewfinder from time to time as I worked on my hobbies. Through the viewfinder of the camera, which was always pointed at the same spot from the same angle, nature appeared as motionless as a landscape painting. But if I looked closely, I could see the living landscape slowly moving and changing. The longer I observed, the livelier the turn of the seasons. A close view of one spot in nature is a joy only bunker life can provide.</p>

    <p class="ind">When a wild animal appeared on the screen, I would feel as happy and excited as I did when a tiger came. One day after a snowstorm, an eagle searching for a place to rest landed on a nut pine. He dusted the snow off the branch with his wings and tapped on it a few times with his talons, then shrugged his wings. With an expression on his face that seemed to say <em>Life is too much sometimes</em>, he became a part of the snowy scene. I saw the burden of life in the eagle.</p>

    <p class="ind">At 4 p.m., I would have an early dinner and observe the area more closely. This was the time of day when tigers became active. Due to battery lifespans, I couldn’t leave the camera on all the time. But between 4 and 5 p.m., I would turn the camera on every ten minutes, and then every five minutes between 5 and 6 p.m. From 6 p.m. until sundown, the camera would stay on.</p>

    <p class="ind">When the sun went down, I would switch to the night camera lens. I needed good light to get a decent image with this lens, and the moonlight reflecting off the snow provided just the right amount. If there was a full moon, the reflection became even brighter. When a tiger appeared in this snowscape, I felt a fantastic chill running down my back; the forest looked frozen by the brilliant light.</p>

    <p class="ind">When the light wasn’t good and I decided to forgo the night shoot, I’d pull down all three layers of the camouflage blankets and board up the entrance with the wood panel. The bunker would become as dark as the abyss. I’d lie still and listen to the sounds coming from outside. The never-ending rhythm of ocean waves and the wind sweeping its hands over the mountain ridge, the sound of gulls heading home late at night, the owl couple calling to each other, and a fox barking in the distance—these were all sounds that reminded me of the solitude of night.</p>

    <p class="ind">My thoughts would stretch on and on. I would think of good people and bad. I’d get angry thinking of the people who never contribute but jump at opportunities to take credit, but my anger seemed silly against the sound of the crashing waves. I would mull the things I wanted to do when I got out of the bunker. <em>I should be good to my parents while they’re still around. I should look up a friend I haven’t seen in years.</em> As my thoughts skipped from one thing to another, my imagination would take flight. I would forget where I was and revisit memories from my childhood.</p>

    <p class="ind">Then I would doze off. Charged with anxiety that a tiger might appear, I’d dream in a state of half-sleep. I often dreamed of tigers: <em>The snow comes down hard. White Moon and White Snow play in the snowy field. White Sky nips at his mother’s tail. The tigers nuzzle and lick snow off each other. White Snow takes off and everyone runs after her. They disappear into the snowy Ussuri forest.</em></p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>I’D BEEN ON</small> stakeout for over two months. I was almost out of batteries and rice balls. I needed a fresh supply of drinking water and had to dispose of my waste. Fresh supplies were supposed to have arrived two days earlier, but they’d been held up because of the weather. The base camp could deliver supplies to bunkers on the coast by boat, but there were no docks on the beaches here and it wouldn’t take more than a medium-size wave to make unloading dangerous. So if there was even the slightest hint of waves, whoever was on delivery detail came over the mountains on foot via Mayak Village, ten kilometers south of the bunker. Climbing several mountains with the heavy batteries and supplies took great determination.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary traveled here from Mayak Village several times a year. When I was on delivery detail in previous years, I would suddenly feel tense or cold as I walked down the forest path that Bloody Mary herself had trod upon. I would stop at the slightest rustle to make sure the coast was clear, and when a gust of winter wind swept up the mountain from behind, I couldn’t help but look back to make sure there were no tigers behind me.</p>

    <p class="ind">When supplies arrive at a bunker, the most important thing is to avoid being seen by tigers. The ideal delivery time is a week after a tiger visit. If the delivery person arrives too soon, tigers might still be in the area, and if they arrive too late, a tiger might be returning. The ideal window of time is the one to two weeks when the tiger has surely cleared out but hasn’t had time to make its way back.</p>

    <p class="ind">The supplies finally made it. After being in the bunker for so long, I felt emotional at the sight of a colleague arriving. We looked at one another, each moved by the sight of the other, but didn’t have much to say, or much time to say it. In case there was a tiger on its way, I quickly lowered the supplies into the bunker and gave my colleague the used batteries and waste, and he left. Had we been absolutely certain there were no tigers around, we would have sat on a sunny hill and chatted for a bit. We’d have exchanged stories we couldn’t over the two-way radio.</p>

    <p class="ind">I was alone again. I felt blue. I was reminded of the fact that humans, unlike tigers, are a species that live in groups. My arms and legs felt weak, and my chest felt tight. The bunker suddenly resembled an endless desert or a bottomless well, and loneliness washed over me like a tide. The two-square-meter space that surrounded me made me tremble with claustrophobia. I lay shaking in a state of despair until night fell.</p>

    <p class="ind">Eyes closed, I was as lucid as if my eyes were open. I still had hours to go before sunrise. If I could, I would jump into the ocean and cry my heart out. It was not the fear of beasts or the cold, but loneliness that paralyzed me in the bunker. How were tigers so fond of being solitary? The anxiety of being alone and the desire to wait for the tigers pulled me in two directions. I thought about who and what I was enduring this loneliness for and how I would face the world if I were to bolt out of this bunker right then. I consoled myself and pulled myself together.</p>

    <p class="ind">The next morning, it was snowing. I tried to cheer up by telling myself that without a small but cozy space like this, I would have no chance in a snowstorm. I repeated this to myself like a mantra: after this snowstorm and a few others, I’d be back at the base camp warming myself by a wood stove, drinking vodka, and falling into a deep, restful sleep. The snowstorms saved me from my solitude.</p>

    <p class="ind">Time passed, and I was back to appreciating the comforts of the bunker. Humans are endlessly vulnerable in nature, but when I was gazing out of my small space, a snowstorm in the uninhabited wild made pretty good scenery. The stronger the wind and the wilder the snowstorm, the more the bunker felt like a warm, cozy bedroom. People wonder why I would want to be in a filthy, uncomfortable hole like that, but its warmth was like a drug to me.</p>

    <p class="ind">A rolling stone gathers no moss. But a rolling stone also wears down. In our effort to live life to the fullest, we sometimes deprive ourselves of the time to reflect on what is truly missing in our lives and how to fill that void. In life, it’s best to be a mossy stone sometimes. Without taking the time to stay put and sink deep into the ground, you can lose your way.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>