<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-19">CHAPTER 16</h1>
    

    <h1 class="chaptit">Merry Christmas, Bloody Mary</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>IT WAS STILL</small> snowing two days later—a snowy kingdom as far as the eye could see. I kept watching the snow fall on the mountains as I waited for the tigers. I thought I saw the orange fur of a tiger knocking snow off the bushes as it emerged, but it was just more snow blurring the line between ground and sky as it fell.</p>

    <p class="ind">“This is Diplyak. This is Diplyak. Nothing to report. Merry Christmas!”</p>

    <p class="ind">“This is Petrova. Tiger tracks found between the Deer Valley and the Coastal Ridge. Be advised. A merry Christmas to you, too!”</p>

    <p class="ind">I was communicating with Petrova Lodge, the location of one of our base camps. The tracks of three tigers had been found inland two days earlier, thirty kilometers northwest of the Petrova coast. They must be White Moon, White Snow, and White Sky. It was a day’s trip from there to here for them, but I couldn’t predict when they would arrive. What were the tiger siblings up to in the snowy forest? What were my kids up to? When I was home, I longed for the mountains. When I was in the mountains, I was homesick. I had been repeating this pattern for fifteen years. I was weary.</p>

    <p class="ind">Four days later, I heard a deer cry in the middle of the night. The deer, which had been making warning calls to other deer, suddenly squealed. The monosyllabic cries stopped after two or three calls. Something was going on. Something seemed to have attacked the deer. A lynx living on the coast? Or were the tigers back?</p>

    <p class="ind">I scanned the field from left to right through the night-vision lens. I saw trees and shrubs buried in snow. I carefully studied the far side of the snow, the green pine needles, the dry branches, and the faded shrubs. There’s a limit to how well you can capture the tension and shock of seeing a tiger in the Ussuri wild. The footage gives you only an inkling. I wondered if I’d be able to capture so much as 10 percent of it.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Diplyak coastal basin was still. I felt some sort of energy spreading in the stillness, but I couldn’t identify the source of it. In moments like this, it’s wise not to move the lens. The source might be looking right at you. I stopped moving and waited with the camera on standby mode.</p>

    <p class="ind">The next morning, I woke to the sound of a herd of deer galloping by. Ussuri deer had been traveling down into the basin since the previous day. I had seen a few go by since the stakeout began, but this was the first I had seen herds migrating like this. The cold was really starting to set in, and the recent snowstorm had likely forced the animals to migrate. Deer tend to move in search of food after big snowstorms. Diplyak is warm because it faces south; also, it’s easy for deer to find acorn and leaves in the oak forest and forage for marine plants on the beach.</p>

    <p class="ind">From behind, the sound of hooves drew nearer, and a deer leapt off the roof of the bunker and landed right in front of the entrance. With its white, heart-shaped bottom right in my face, it let out a warning call. It was a strange feeling to see a deer warn the others about something when the very thing it should beware of was right behind it. The deer pricked its ear and cocked its head sideways before kicking the ground a few times and rejoining the herd running through the basin.</p>

    <p class="ind">We had picked the wrong spot for the bunker. It was only after we had built it that we’d noticed we were right in the middle of an animal path. We should have paid more attention when we were drawing the eco-maps.</p>

    <p class="ind">Cold winds brought a mountain of gray clouds, and on the horizon, the snowy coastal ridge bled into the gray. When it’s overcast and windy, tigers move earlier in the day. That day, I was determined to stay focused during the day as well. If the squealing deer the night before was the doing of a tiger, it would be back today. When tigers catch deer, they drag their kill off to a secluded place and feed on it for two or three days. They find a warm place to rest after they’ve had their fill and return when they’re hungry again.</p>

    <p class="ind">I knew a few places nearby where the tiger could be. From the bunker, the beach was to the left and the young pine grove was about 150 meters to the right. In the summer, I’d once seen traces that Bloody Mary’s family had left behind after dragging a deer there to eat. There was a small brook behind the young pine grove. The tiger must have eaten its kill in the pine forest or by the frozen brook, or maybe in the knoll behind the brook. Long ago, I’d seen a deer carcass on that knoll as well. Besides, the short hazel trees and young oaks on the knoll that hadn’t shed their leaves completely would make for a good place to hide. If it was really a tiger who had done the hunting the previous night, it would have dragged the deer to one of those three places. Perhaps it was already near the forest to scope out the situation. Once it occurred to me that a tiger might be nearby, I was reluctant to adjust the camera lens.</p>

    <p class="ind">At three in the afternoon, I aimed the lens at the right side of the forest and slowly panned back to the foot of the hills. I saw bushes sitting under snow and the green pine forest. Big, sturdy oaks stood along the ridge, and young oaks barely one meter tall crowded the foot of the hill. I was scanning the grove of young oaks when I suddenly stopped. It had been there all along! I didn’t know how it had crept up so fast, but there it was, its whiskered face peering out from between the yellow oak leaves fluttering in the wind. Its thick torso was obscured by the young oaks, and its striped face was expertly camouflaged by the yellow leaves and brown branches.</p>

    <p class="ind">I let out a sigh of relief. I’d have missed it altogether if it hadn’t been for the stripes. Or rather, I’d have given myself away by moving the camera lens. Fortunately, it wasn’t the lens the tiger was looking at. It stayed camouflaged for over ten minutes as it surveyed the area. To the left, waves foamed as they crashed on the shore, and to the right, a bare ridge embraced the forest in the small basin. Behind the tiger, valleys and ridges cast a sharp contrast between light and dark as their bold lines climbed toward the peak.</p>

    <p class="ind">Out of this scenery came the tiger, slowly making its way into the clearing.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger sat primly like a housecat and started to gnaw on the leftover deer from the day before. Its black-striped orange fur was beautiful against the blue waves of the East Sea. If tigers in the mountains look proud and powerful, a tiger by the sea looks carefree and gentle. The size and bone structure of the tiger indicated it was a female. Her expression was too unguarded to be Bloody Mary, so she must have been either White Moon or White Snow. I was leaning toward White Moon because she was traveling alone. During the summer expedition research, we’d often found this smallest of Bloody Mary’s cubs wandering on her own. Like children born into poor families who have to grow up fast, White Moon seemed to be preparing to part with her family sooner, since there hadn’t always been enough food for the youngest of the litter.</p>

    <p class="ind">In daylight, she looked bigger than she had when I’d seen her at night some time earlier. If it’s difficult to tell a mother and cubs apart by their size, it’s a good idea to look at their faces. You can tell from their expressions if they’re old and aloof or young, innocent, and inexperienced. You can also tell the difference by how cautious or clever they are. Bloody Mary would never move around in broad daylight.</p>

    <p class="ind">A deer made a warning call in the forest to the right. White Moon’s gently waving tail suddenly stopped. Her strong front paws planted firmly in the ground, she looked in the direction the sound had come from. Nervous due to the time of day, she got up on her hind legs. Then she looked away from the forest and walked off into the oak grove she had come from earlier. The yellow leaves rustled as she walked by, as though brushed by a gentle breeze, and then grew still again. She’d been fast. It was a brief encounter, but I’d managed to get this beautiful moment in the wild on film. On the other hand, I was worried that she’d left because she’d picked up on my scent or the movement of the camera.</p>

    <p class="ind">The snowflakes began to fly again. I wouldn’t be able to see the bright, full moon floating in the sky that night. When I thought about it more, I realized Bloody Mary and her family tended to come to the beach around the time the full moon was out. They had been there on November 27, four days before the full moon, and now on December 29, one day before the full moon. When we’d researched this beach in August, we’d found their tracks right after the full moon at low tide, and this pattern was true in the past, too.</p>

    <p class="ind">What was the reason for the tigers heading to the beach for the full moon? It may have had something to do with the steep cliff along the beach and the waves. Climbing the dizzying cliffs of the east coast on a moonless night is not a welcoming thought, perhaps even for tigers, but not as unappealing as moving around in daylight. Wide-open beaches are sometimes unavoidable when traveling along the coastal ridge, and being in an open area during the day is one of the wild tigers’ least favorite things to do. So they wait for bright, moonlit nights to travel along the coast.</p>

    <p class="ind">Also, two to three days before the full moon is the ideal time for tigers to hunt in this area. During a full moon on low tide, when the moon’s gravitational pull creates the greatest tidal range, waves as tall as houses whip the beaches and fill the coast with a deafening roar that helps tigers approach their prey undetected. The wind eddies following the big waves also make it difficult for the ungulates on the beach to smell the tigers. The more I watched Ussuri tigers, the more I was amazed by their intelligence. Every move they made was careful and calculated.</p>

    <p class="ind">The snow stopped and the clouds parted as evening fell. It had been a few days since the winter solstice, and the days were very short. Between 6:30 and 6:40 in the evening, the camera hit its exposure limit. I was debating whether I should swap in the night lens, hoping to hold out just a little longer, when I saw the hazy silhouette of a large animal in the distance. It was 6:43 p.m., right after the day lens stopped being usable. I felt around the dark bunker and quietly put in the night lens. Thanks to all the practice, I was used to handling equipment in the dark. I turned the camera on and unlocked the tripod joints. The viewfinder emitted a foggy light as it came on. I panned the camera to get the angle as quickly as possible without catching the tiger’s attention. Two pairs of eyes flashed in the dark, and I saw stripes. A brawny tiger was casting his gaze around. I looked straight at him without hitting the record button. The moment he turned to look at the mountains, I hit record. I heard the quiet <em>whirr</em> of the tape locking in place and starting to turn. The sound seemed exceptionally loud. I slowly zoomed in and found the focus. The image of the tiger became clearer. It was White Sky. He was still gazing back at the mountains.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Sky headed in the direction he was looking. I followed him by moving the frame diagonally. And then another tiger entered the frame. It nuzzled against White Sky’s neck and snuffled affectionately. White Sky caressed the other tiger’s neck with his tail and walked off again. Yet another tiger came into the frame before long. All three rubbed noses and nuzzled against each other in greeting, congregating under the full moon. It was White Moon, White Snow, and White Sky, five days after their tracks had been found thirty kilometers inland. They must have followed the deer here. It was time for them to become independent, but these siblings were still traveling together. They played together, nudging each other, snapping at each other’s tails, and frolicking.</p>

    <p class="ind">From behind the bunker, I heard footsteps approaching, crunching on snow. The hairs on the back of my neck stood up. The heavy sound of a large cat’s soft paws on snow... Bloody Mary?</p>

    <p class="ind">The crunching got closer and closer until it moved on top of the bunker roof. The roof creaked. My heart began to race and I couldn’t breathe.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Calm down. Calm down.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">It all happened so fast that my heart was ready to jump out of my chest, and I was dizzy in spite of my effort to calm myself. Bloody Mary was right above my head. <em>One, two, three, four...</em> Thirty seconds went by. It felt like an eternity. Bloody Mary suddenly leapt over the entrance of the bunker, and the camera caught her as she walked into the thicket, brushing snow off the lower branches in her wake. With her tail held straight up to avoid scratching it on the branches, her body slinked from side to side as she walked confidently up to her cubs. Bloody Mary had followed the deer that had passed through in the morning. I chastised myself once again for building a bunker right in the middle of a deer path.</p>

    <p class="ind">I caught all four tigers in the frame. As I guessed, it was Bloody Mary, the matron of the Basin of Skeletons. She had finally appeared before me. Her long tail dangled behind her with just the tip turned up like a snake’s head. Her torso was slender and firm, her shoulder blades jutted out in a sharp angle, and her strong head was held up high. She was tidy, disciplined, and clean. I felt power and unyielding will in her. She was calm and reserved, like a fighter who calculated her every move to protect herself and her family in the brutal struggle for survival. She radiated a wildness that could only come from fighting through life alone, without relying on anyone else.</p>

    <p class="ind">The cubs snuffled affectionately at their mother as they nuzzled against her neck. But Bloody Mary did not reciprocate. She must have sensed that something was amiss, for she was busy sniffing and surveying the area. I carefully zoomed in until Bloody Mary’s face filled the frame. The look on her face was not one of a loving mother. She was on edge, full of suspicion and caution.</p>

    <p class="ind">She was looking around when, suddenly, she spotted the lens. The lens froze and Bloody Mary froze as well, but she did not take her eyes off of it. Her gaze stayed riveted, as if glued. My heart rate suddenly spiked. I had been too careless in my excitement at seeing Bloody Mary for the first time. I had forgotten that she was an exceptional mother. I should have been more careful with a veteran like her.</p>

    <p class="ind">With her glare fixed on the camera lens, Bloody Mary slowly turned her body around. She had the look of a mother tiger who would take on the entire world for the sake of her cubs. Her long, serpentine tail held straight up, she walked through the frosty thicket, straight toward me. A pile of snow on the elm branch above the bunker plopped down as the wind blew. She came closer, her eyes staring straight at the lens. The close-up image of her in the viewfinder turned blurry and then disappeared altogether. I couldn’t see the look in her eyes anymore. I couldn’t zoom out either. I held my breath and stayed very still.</p>

    <p class="ind">The <em>crunch crunch</em> of her paws on snow got closer. My blood was freezing in my veins. I wondered if I should retract my lens right then, and realized that it was already too late for that. If I got caught like this, everything would go to waste. The bunker would be destroyed and my life would be in danger. With my left hand on the focus ring of the lens jutting out through three layers of blankets, and my right hand on the tripod handle inside the bunker, I held my breath. I left everything to fate and hoped she would pass me by.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Crunch. Crunch.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary continued toward the entrance. One, two, three, four steps. Stop. She was on the left side of the lens.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary sniffed the lens from the left and right. I had taken off my left glove to manipulate the sensitive focus ring, and now I felt Bloody Mary’s warm breath on the back of my left hand. I was so tense my back was about to break, and my skin was covered in goosebumps. Her breath and her stiff whiskers grazed the back of my left hand. The back of my hand spasmed. And then her strong front paw struck the camera lens. The lens bent and the microphone snapped.</p>

    <p class="ind">She let out an indescribable, blood-curdling growl, and the attack began. She caught the zoom cable that was dragged out with the lens when it fell off and yanked at it. The copper wire inside the cable cut the back of my right hand as the cable snapped. A sharp pain shot through my body. Bloody Mary clawed off the camouflage shrubs at the entrance and started to rip off the wooden paneling. The cubs rushed to her side. They used their spade-like front paws to dig up the soil around my hideout. Small holes appeared in the corner of the bunker. They stuck their noses in the holes and sniffed. I heard the raspy breath of a tiger right by my ear.</p>

    <p class="ind">One tiger got on the roof of the bunker. Then another. Soon, I heard the sound of the pine boards snapping. The tigers were digging up the earth on the top of the bunker. I broke out into a cold sweat and trembled all over. Of the three layers of blankets at the entrance, one had already been ripped off and the second was about to come down as well. The roof bent and started to cave. The four tigers did their worst while the helpless man sat paralyzed in a ditch.</p>

    <p class="ind">A third tiger climbed on top of the bunker, and the roof broke with a loud crash. Frozen dirt and clumps of snow fell into the bunker along with a tiger’s back foot. My mind went blank. The tiger must have been equally stunned that its foot had fallen into a dark hole, for it kicked frantically to pull itself out. The kicking broke the pine board a second time, and I heard the tigers running away.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once the paw retreated from the bunker, I suddenly snapped out of it. I thought about getting up to push the pine board back into place, but I stopped. As hard as it was, I had to keep my wits about me to the end, and I sensed that this was not over yet.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tigers were quiet. So determined just moments ago to scratch and tear and sniff and find out what was in the ground, they had instantly grown still. The footsteps grew distant and then ceased altogether. Silence had returned. Not a mouse in sight. Only the occasional plop of snow falling from branches.</p>

   

  </body>
</html>