<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-20">CHAPTER 17</h1>


    <h1 class="chaptit">By the Skin of Tiger Teeth</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>BLOODY MARY HAD</small> not left. The footsteps moved away and suddenly stopped. She lay quietly hidden somewhere, spying on me. She would be sitting in the sphinx position, with her eyes on me. But I couldn’t tell where she was. The cubs were as still as their mother.</p>

    <p class="ind">I instinctively knew this was a real crisis. Whoever moved first would lose. Just in case the situation worsened, I carefully boarded up the entrance with the panel and pulled out the cannon flare to wait. Unless they came into the bunker, I wouldn’t use the cannon flare. I’d made it this far, so I figured I might as well keep up the ruse.</p>

    <p class="ind">Twenty minutes went by without either man or tigers making any move. Frighteningly cold wind poured in through the collapsed roof. I wanted to rub my hands together, but I couldn’t manage to lift a finger. I was getting colder faster because I couldn’t move. The tigers frightened me, but the brutal power of physics, the temperature of -30°C, was becoming more worrisome. I was freezing from head to toe and sat as stiff as a rock.</p>

    <p class="ind">Thirty minutes later, I heard footsteps slowly approaching.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Crunch, crunch.</em> The squeak of paws on wet snow was as unnerving as an awl piercing my brain. Bloody Mary had indeed been cunning and tenacious enough to lie in wait just behind the bunker for thirty minutes, testing me.</p>

    <p class="ind">She came by the entrance again for a sniff. I thought I felt her breath on my left cheek. I was relieved that I’d had the presence of mind to block the entrance during the brief time she’d been gone, but I was worried about the collapsed roof. What if she came in that way? Knowing tigers, I didn’t think she’d venture into a dark hole without knowing what was inside. But what if one of her silly cubs were to fall in? If I was trapped in this space with a tiger, I would have nowhere to run. The tiger, also with no place to run, would instinctively attack me. I prayed that this would not come to pass.</p>

    <p class="ind">The cubs also circled and sniffed the bunker. I could hear sniffing coming from all sides. They were all grown up and as big as their mother, but they still did only what she did. They stopped when she did and started moving again when she moved. Fortunately, none of them climbed on top of the roof. They must have been scared too, remembering how the ground had given out and swallowed a paw.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>After all that poking around, there’s no reaction from inside. I saw something move and I smelled human, but there’s nothing...</em> Bloody Mary must have been confused now. What if I had moved, thinking she was gone? I calmed my racing heart in relief.</p>

    <p class="ind">The attack resumed. They scratched, bit, dug, and made a huge racket before the sounds suddenly stopped. All I heard were cold blasts of wind coming in through the collapsed roof.</p>

    <p class="ind">Almost an hour later, Bloody Mary came over again. She sniffed and scratched. She pawed and dug like she was intent on getting to the bottom of this mystery. This went on all night.</p>

    <p class="ind">At 4:10 a.m., I heard cubs wrestling with each other and running about. They seemed to have let down their guard. Then I heard them leaving, one by one. Instead of just pausing, the footsteps receded.</p>

    <p class="ind">If Bloody Mary had figured out what the bunker was, she would never return again. But it seemed she was still suspicious. Based on the fact that she didn’t leave until dawn, I believed she still thought there was something fishy about the bunker. There was a good chance she would spy on me from the top of the mountain and return at night for another examination. This was how any Ussuri tiger would behave—not to mention this was Bloody Mary we were talking about.</p>

    <p class="ind">It was -34°C. I was so cold. Just as it is darkest before the dawn, it is also coldest before the dawn. The towel I’d hung up the previous morning after wiping my face had become stiff as a board, and my apples were frozen so solid that I could use them to hammer nails. There was frost clinging to my nose and moustache. After nine hours of sitting very still, I couldn’t move. I’d experienced colder weather before, but the chill I now felt was much stronger. Now I understood how quickly your perception of temperature drops when you can’t move. I wanted to crawl into my sleeping bag, but I waited a little longer just in case.</p>

    <p class="ind">I knew that, years later, when I looked back on that day, I would hardly believe it had happened. The very thought of it turned my blood cold. The fragile pendulum of life had swung; death had come right up to my nose and retreated. Once the swinging between life and death stopped, when the uncertain vibration of the moment was gone, it was difficult to express exactly how it had felt.</p>

    <p class="ind">Dawn began to break. It was the last day of the year. I wiped the congealed blood off my right hand and cleaned up the mess in the bunker. I pushed the roof up, and clumps of dirt and ice fell inside. I propped up the roof with the tripod. I swept up the dirt and snow and cleared the bed. I rehung the blanket over the entrance and checked on the wood panel door as well. Fortunately, the antenna cable had been left intact.</p>

    <p class="ind">At 10 a.m., I reported the incident to the base camp and warned them not to approach. I thought about Bloody Mary, who was resting on the mountain with a good view of the bunker. I prepared for the night by making tea and having a simple meal of a melted rice ball. I continued to face the challenges of my life here, but I felt a little sad. I hung my head in spite of my efforts to put on a brave face. It took a while before I could pull myself back together. When I felt calmer, I sealed the bunker’s entrance and crawled into the sleeping bag.</p>

    <p class="ind">Night came again. The winds were calm and it was still all around. The sky had been clear all day, so the full moon must have been shining down. A Eurasian eagle owl hooted in the distance. I pictured the eagle owl sitting on top of a coniferous tree, its wide, red eyes searching the snowy forest for prey. The mice had returned to the bunker, but were still cautious after the previous night’s sneak attack.</p>

    <p class="ind">It was after midnight and Bloody Mary hadn’t returned. I was disheartened, as I thought she had found me out. My heart felt empty, and I was feverish. I dropped off to sleep.</p>

    <p class="ind">Three a.m. The sound of footsteps approaching woke me up. I opened my eyes. The audio level on the sound monitor was rising and falling.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Crunch. Crunch.</em> The careful footsteps on snow circled the bunker once and then came toward the entrance. A low, metallic growl came vibrating from the tiger’s throat. I felt Bloody Mary’s breath through the one remaining layer of blanket and the wood panel. Now that she had come, the emptiness and disappointment of never seeing her again instantly vanished and I was horrified again.</p>

    <p class="ind">Unlike the day before, I was better able to gauge the situation. They say you can survive a tiger attack if you keep your wits about you, and this is true. Now that I was calmer, I could tell where Bloody Mary was standing even when her footsteps stopped. The cubs were coming down the hill behind the bunker. I was fully prepared. I decided to use the tripod to hold the roof firmly in place instead of filming. The entrance had been sealed as well. I had crawled into the sleeping bag early, so I wasn’t cold, either. A strange feeling welled up inside me, like the sense of relief you feel when you’re sitting cozily by a fire listening to a snowstorm rage outside. The sentimentality of the morning had been replaced by the thrill and tension of the swinging pendulum again.</p>

    <p class="ind">When Bloody Mary didn’t hear a single peep coming from the bunker, she walked off to the right. The cubs followed. I carefully turned on the security camera to find her looking back and waiting for a cub that was lagging behind. It almost looked like she was glaring at the bunker. Bloody Mary stalked off, and White Moon, who had been grooming herself in the bushes, quickly followed. Bloody Mary’s family disappeared into the pine grove. It was ten minutes to dawn.</p>

    <p class="ind">It appeared Bloody Mary was less suspicious now, even though she had lingering doubts. I had fooled her. Compared to the day before, when I had spent hours in fear of the roof collapsing and being attacked by four beasts that weighed over two hundred kilograms each, this day was... I wished I could say it was better, but it was just as rough.</p>

    <p class="ind">The sun rose over the East Sea. It was powerful and red, as if to signal the beginning of a new year. The skies were clear. Had Bloody Mary left?</p>

    <p class="ind">I decided I would film again that day. I slept during the day and started preparations at 4 p.m. Because the temperature inside the bunker had dropped dramatically the previous day, though, I ran into problems with the batteries; they were discharging quickly. I turned on the security camera using what energy remained in its batteries. A tiger must have destroyed it, for I wasn’t getting any image or sound feedback.</p>

    <p class="ind">It grew overcast in the afternoon. I checked the viewfinder every ten minutes, and then after 5 p.m., every five minutes. Five-forty-eight p.m. A striped pattern flashed in the pine grove. It was the three cubs. No Bloody Mary. The cubs lingered in the pine grove, reluctant to be out in the open when it was still bright out.</p>

    <p class="ind">After loitering for a while, the youngest, White Moon, turned and headed inland along the mountain ridge. White Sky and White Snow bravely ventured out to the shrubbed area and climbed the perilous coastal ridge. White Sky was fearless. Halfway up the steep rocky mountain, he turned only his neck and stared at the bunker. I saw the two tigers’ black stripes and ginger fur appear intermittently through the cliffside pines until they disappeared over the snowy mountain ridge.</p>

    <p class="ind">The next day, the tigers did not come.</p>

    <p class="ind">The day after that, I contacted the base camp, left the bunker in the coastal basin, and moved into the bunker on the beach. The wind was strong, and snowflakes started to flutter. The white-haired witch had flown over from Siberia. I wished the witch would wipe the memories of my difficult encounter with Bloody Mary and my own vulnerability clean. A violent snowstorm was coming. It began to snow heavily.</p>

   

  
  </body>
</html>