<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-21">CHAPTER 18</h1>
  

    <h1 class="chaptit">Tiger for Sale</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>PEOPLE IN THIS</small> part of the world are poor. Most farmers grow little more than potatoes, and a few chickens are all they have for livestock. Very few can afford to raise pigs and cattle, so they harvest wild vegetables and fish instead. They came to the base camp bearing wild vegetables, fish, or eggs in their baskets and quietly peeked in. They wanted to sell them to us. In Kievka and the surrounding villages, it was easy enough for the villagers to exchange goods, but difficult to get money for their wares, so we tended to buy things from them for more than they were worth.</p>

    <p class="ind">The villagers envied our equipment, cables, and other supplies. They looked at them admiringly, mumbling to themselves about what they could do if they only had this or that. Some villages didn’t have electricity despite having had posts installed because they couldn’t afford electric lines. Since the switch from socialism to capitalism, the wealth had not trickled down to these remote areas.</p>

    <p class="ind">One day, a resident from one of the nearby villages came to the base camp to visit and showed us a plug. “Look at this plug. It’s perfectly good,” he said. “If we can wire it, we could use electricity.”</p>

    <p class="ind">We couldn’t help but give him some electric line. We handed him a spool of it as a gift. News spread to others that the village of the man who showed us the plug had electricity thanks to our help. A few days later, another man came and handed us a piece of paper. Here’s what it said:</p>

    <p class="blockquote1">10 pink salmon<br/>10 bundles of Alpine leek<br/>3 bottles of five-flavor berry wine<br/>1 sack of potatoes<br/>5 kilograms of chaga mushrooms<br/>10 kilograms of oak charcoal<br/>2 cubic meters of firewood<br/>P.S. I will tell you if I see any tiger tracks.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>HE SAID THAT</small> he would give us everything on this list. In exchange, he wanted a saw. He was a charcoal maker who made charcoal out of oak, and he needed a saw for his livelihood.</p>

    <p class="ind">“How does a charcoal maker not have a saw already?” I asked.</p>

    <p class="ind">He mimed sawing and said, “<em>Ratatata, ratatata, ratatata...</em> All done.”</p>

    <p class="ind">He did own a saw, but was dying to get a chainsaw. I understood the envy he must have felt as he toiled, while others with chainsaws brought down big oaks with just three swipes of that tool. He knew he had to give us something in return for the chainsaw, but he didn’t have anything to offer us. That was probably how he had come up with the idea of bringing us an inventory of everything he could find in his house. So we had to get him a chainsaw. Such exchanges built a bond between us and the villagers. When they saw tiger tracks while they were out working in the woods, they always let us know. They became our allies.</p>

    <p class="ind">Things could get very hectic quickly when we planned a trip to Vladivostok. To the residents of Kievka, a trip to Vladivostok, four hundred kilometers away, was a truly big deal. First, they had to walk to Lazo to catch a bus that ran only once a day, which meant they would have to spend the night in Vladivostok. Most of them couldn’t afford to stay at an inn and didn’t know anyone in the city to take them in for the night. Since we had a jeep, we wound up taking care of all the business the villagers had in the city. We handled everything from buying supplies to delivering mail. When word got around that we were going into the city, villagers would hand us letters and give us approximate locations of where the recipients lived. No matter how early we left in the morning, it was always past midnight when we returned after doing all our chores.</p>

    <p class="ind">When we were about to set out, children flocked to the jeep, their eyes brimming desire to visit the big city. When they looked up at us like that, we couldn’t say no. When we drove down the dusty, newly paved road in the jeep loaded up with children who were in a motor vehicle for the first time in their lives, I felt nostalgic for my own childhood.</p>

    <p class="ind">Years ago, I got to know a boy named Maxim, the son of a forest ranger who once worked with us. He had an innocence about him and was too shy to talk to strangers. Once, when he was in high school, we found him gazing longingly at our jeep as we were getting ready for a trip into the city.</p>

    <p class="ind">“We’ll take you if you get your parents’ permission.”</p>

    <p class="ind">He was overjoyed to hear this, and shortly returned with his sister, who was one year older than he. She was a very pretty girl. We went over the hills, raced down the newly paved road, and got skewers from a vendor by the brook for lunch. After the big lunch, the siblings fell asleep in the car, leaning against each other. They were still asleep when we arrived, and their eyes grew as wide as saucers when they awoke and looked around with wonder at a city for the first time. Feeling sorry that they couldn’t afford to enjoy themselves, I gave them fifty dollars for spending money. Their faces turned red with pure joy and gratitude as they thanked me. Again, I was reminded of my own childhood. I was grateful to them for taking me back.</p>

    <p class="ind">When I met Maxim again three years later, he was so happy to see me. He’d graduated from college and married young. He had also been in the army, where he’d served as a motor transport soldier, so he offered to drive us around in the jeep for free. Stefanovich interviewed Maxim and hired him as our assistant. Today, Maxim drives the Ural, our traveling base camp.</p>

    <p class="ind">Maxim’s older sister is studying biology at the prestigious Saint Petersburg State University. I saw her again in St. Petersburg when I was on a trans-Siberian trip the summer we hired Maxim. We hadn’t seen each other in several years, but she greeted me as if no time had passed. She had changed a great deal and turned into a very elegant Russian lady. I felt a little strange around her. Some parts of the girl I had met in the village years ago remained, but there was a small awkwardness between us. Well aware of her father’s financial situation and how hard it must be to make ends meet far away from home, I gave her some money before we parted.</p>

    <p class="ind">The Russians say all it takes to make a friend is vodka. But this isn’t true. You also need time. Working with the villagers for long periods of time and bonding with them was what it took to become friends with them. But once you became friends with people from one village, it was easy to befriend people from other villages as well. News of what we were doing in the area got around from village to village. Over vodka, they introduced us to people from other villages by telling them, “It’s important what they’re doing here. They want to leave records of the animals going extinct so our children can see.”</p>

    <p class="ind">The relationships we formed over time with people from different villages created a special emotional bond. It was easy for them to be friendly toward us because our faces did not seem foreign to the Russians thanks to the ethnic Korean communities nearby; also, we didn’t wear fancy clothes when we worked, and we spoke decent Russian.</p>

    <p class="ind">However, we sometimes ran into villagers inside the nature reserve, like we did with Tanya’s parents. As unauthorized persons can be heavily punished for entering a nature reserve, it was awkward when this happened. It wasn’t as bad when the villagers in question were ginseng gatherers who didn’t harm wild animals, but things became strained very quickly when we encountered a villager carrying a gun. Some of them would sneak into the nature reserve during the holidays or at the end of the year to hunt meat for seasonal feasts. The high price of pork and beef drove poor villagers into the woods, and poaching became increasingly worse around the holidays.</p>

    <p class="ind">While living in the mountains, we often caught people in the act of poaching. Naturally, we came to know who caught what. We were obligated to report them to the authorities, but we couldn’t bring ourselves to do it because we understood that they wanted something for the holidays and their children. I had once ran into a man from the village who had brought his wife out hunting. It was a strange encounter, but also very sad. Forest rangers would sometimes track down poachers only to find out they were friends. One side needed to eat and survive at any cost, and the other needed to protect at any cost. We couldn’t treat them like criminals, but not simply because we were their friends. They weren’t professional poachers. They would never dare dream of going after a tiger or any other beast that size. All they wanted was to shoot a deer or boar so they could have meat for dinner.</p>

    <p class="ind">The real problem we faced was commercial, systematic poachers—professional hunters, mafia with capital, or the army with an arsenal. They targeted deer, boars, bears, and even tigers. Since it was nearly impossible to shoot a tiger in person, they installed booby traps and snares in large numbers. The booby traps were so well camouflaged that they posed a threat to forest rangers as well. A large tiger went for $20,000 to $30,000 on the Chinese market, so guns were a worthwhile investment.</p>

    <p class="ind">After huge Asian markets dedicated to selling the parts of poached animals opened in the wake of the fall of the Soviet Union, a wave of Chinese merchants arrived in Ussuri. Ads for tiger sales and tigers wanted for purchase ran on TV and in newspapers. Tigers were sold whole or divided into parts—bones, skin, and meat. The majority of the suppliers were Russian mafia, military, and professional poachers, and the consumers were mostly Asian—some Koreans and Japanese, but mostly Chinese. The price was determined according to the size and characteristics of the tiger. Tigers bred in captivity went for $3,000 to $5,000. Wild tigers went for upwards of $30,000. For the Russian economy in those days, these were enormous sums.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once, a man named Lumiere asked me for some footage of tigers. He was the boss of the second-largest crime organization in the eastern Russian city of Khabarovsk. When I asked him what the footage was for, he said it was for a TV ad he was going to run in China to spur sales. I was harassed quite a bit after I refused. The following year, Lumiere was caught in a struggle between crime organizations and was shot in the head in front of his house. The influence of the Russian mafia reached far into the forest. Mines, oil wells, lumber, and even the tiger skin business were often controlled by the mafia. If a member of the mafia became a state governor and started to lean in favor of one family over another, he could be assassinated.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the past, the region north of Mount Baekdusan was called Suhae, or “sea of trees,” and the region north of the Tumen River was called Millim, or “the jungle<em>.</em>” The forest was so dense in this region that it was nicknamed the “Amazon of Northeast Asia.” The Ussuri forest, far more treacherous and sparsely populated than the forests of Manchuria, was especially well preserved. But since the migration of the Han people to Manchuria in the nineteenth century, the sea of trees and the jungle had all but disappeared and the trees along the Tumen River had been cut down to maintain an unobstructed view of the border and North Koreans attempting to flee. Trees several hundred years old were cut down in the wake of the Slavs’ southward migration to Ussuri, leaving behind the smaller trees. Forests shrank, and animal populations decreased, taking the tiger population down with them. Today, people gun down the few tigers that remain. The forest village people shoot to survive, and the outsiders shoot for greed.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>