<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-22">CHAPTER 19</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">White Snow and White Sky’s Dispute</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>TO WAIT FOR</small> a tiger is to wait for yourself. In my new bunker on the beach, I waited each day for a tiger that did not come. I turned on the camera every ten minutes in anticipation. The wind squeezed its way into the bunker to seek shelter from the cold, and the light avoided the bunker’s darkness. Each time I switched on the camera, only the cylindrical haze from the viewfinder lit the inside of the bunker. A day went by. A month went by. I began to wonder. Had there been an accident? Had the tigers changed routes? As the days passed, anticipation turned into doubt—<em>They’re not coming today, are they?</em>—and as the months passed, doubt turned into negativity—<em>Of course they’re not coming today.</em> It was easy to fall into the trap of time and lose focus.</p>

    <p class="ind">The days of waiting stretched on indefinitely. There is a mere twenty-four-hour space between the day a tiger comes and the day no tigers come. I had to keep believing that these two days were part of the same continuous flow, not separated by a boundary into black and white. I tried to concentrate by telling myself, <em>They haven’t come by in two, three months, so it’s likely they’ll come soon.</em> Waiting for a tiger is like running a marathon. You must pace yourself and try not to push too hard. Just as the length of those forty-two kilometers is made up of little steps, I had to keep my pace and prepare for the final stretch.</p>

    <p class="ind">If I divided my days into ones where I saw tigers and ones where nothing happened, I lost hope and fell into despair. But if I saw time as a continuous stretch, I was able to prepare myself for when tigers would show up. I anticipated every small possibility and made preparations, everything from ensuring I had a backup battery to adjusting the position of my water cup. I had missed opportunities in the past when a tiger came by because I was short just one 1.5-volt battery, or I had put my life in jeopardy because a water cup had fallen off a shelf. I now made minor adjustments each day and tried to tell myself that a tiger was coming the next. The longer they didn’t show, the more I convinced myself their appearance was imminent.</p>

    <p class="ind">At the end of these hours of anticipation and small preparations, a tiger showed up without warning or ceremony. When it emerged from a snowy shrub, bringing with it a chilly energy, I felt something warm rising inside of me. <em>You’ve returned alive and well. You are living life according to your own pace.</em> The relief penetrated through the long hours of waiting, and tears welled up in my eyes.</p>

    <p class="ind">But the sentimental observation was brief. My sense of relief was quickly replaced by a live, pulsating tension. Like a marathoner on his last spurt, I felt as though I was about to breathe my last breath and every blood vessel in my body was about to explode. The brief moment when I filmed the wild tiger felt like an eternity. I was awash with ecstasy, but the moment didn’t last. Like marathoners dispersing after a race, the tiger left soundlessly. When I woke up from this dream that sent my heart racing, I found myself alone at the starting line again. I pulled myself together by telling myself, <em>To see a tiger, you must see yourself and submit to nature.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">There had been no news of Bloody Mary’s whereabouts for two months. Since her bunker attack at the end of the previous year, she had not been seen. She’d been unable to confirm my presence then, but she must have noticed something. The whereabouts of the three siblings were also a mystery. Since White Moon had gone inland and White Snow and White Sky had headed for the coastal ridge, we had found no trace of them.</p>

    <p class="ind">I got a radio transmission from the Ural, our base camp on wheels. The tracks of two tigers had been found near Petrova Lodge. One was small, the other was large with the paws of a male tiger that was still growing. It was probably White Snow and White Sky. The sister and brother had followed the tracks of the four-eyed dog Chyara to Petrova Lodge, turned around in front of the lodge, and headed for Bishannie Beach.</p>

    <p class="ind">The siblings were fully grown, but they hadn’t matured mentally. They lacked the prudence to stay away from humans. If they were with Bloody Mary, they wouldn’t have gone near the lodge. Bloody Mary must have taught them to avoid manmade structures, but they hadn’t experienced how truly dangerous they could be. It took surviving a great deal of hardship to become a true wild tiger. The reality of life in the forest is so trying that survival is difficult even for experienced wild animals.</p>

    <p class="ind">Four days later, a bird picking at a rosegold pussy willow on the frozen brook flew off and shook the willow branch. A small pile of snow fell off to reveal a purple willow bud wrapped in layers of fuzzy scales. Spring had found the willow amid the brutal cold.</p>

    <p class="ind">I found tiger prints next to the red stigma of the rosegold pussy willow. I zoomed in and focused the lens. One set of prints was small, the other large. The small prints were superimposed over the large ones. The big one led, and the small one followed. It was White Sky and White Snow, the siblings who had visited Petrova Lodge a few days earlier. The tracks followed the little brook down to the beach. Seeing those clean tracks set off a great ripple deep in my chest. The thought of the living creatures that had made these tracks caused my heart to beat wildly. I wanted to crawl out of the bunker and follow the path of the white flower-shaped prints.</p>

    <p class="ind">I fought the urge and traced the tracks with my camera lens instead. Alongside the tracks was a long, shallow furrow, similar to the trail left by a rolling ball. The marks became more pronounced, and soon they were everywhere, as were haphazard tiger tracks. In the midst of all this lay a yellow ball. It was a plastic buoy.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow and White Sky had played with a buoy that had swept ashore. I saw signs of tigers running, jumping, and frolicking with the ball. I couldn’t figure out the whole sequence, but it looked like they had passed the ball back and forth and then White Sky had rolled and dribbled it. White Snow had tackled him to intercept, and White Sky had pounced on the ball to stop it from rolling back into the sea, then had kicked it back up to White Snow. In the middle of the night when the world was asleep, Bloody Mary’s energetic children had played soccer here. I saw a childlike innocence, not yet tainted by the realities of the woods, in this scene of lighthearted play.</p>

    <p class="ind">The next set of marks showed that the brother and sister had suddenly sprung up from where they’d been resting in the snow and charged forward. The marks ended at spatters of blood. There was a deep groove in the snow where the bloodied thing had been dragged. The groove continued to the rock cliff by the beach, at the bottom of which lay a dead doe. The artery in its neck was ruptured, and the area was soaked with blood. Its face was bloody and its jaw was shattered. The hunter hadn’t just severed the artery—he or she had bitten down so hard that they had crushed the doe’s jaw. I couldn’t tell if it was White Snow or White Sky, but the cub had learned well from its mother.</p>

    <p class="ind">The siblings must have spotted the deer while resting in the snow after their soccer match. The day before had been the full moon, which meant the thunderous sound of waves and eddying of the ocean winds would have masked the sound and scent of the tigers. The doe’s senses must have been so overwhelmed and paralyzed by the forces of nature that she had failed to notice a tiger—two, no less. After the siblings had hunted the deer, they had dragged her to the bottom of the cliff, but had hardly eaten. They must have hunted at dawn when the tide was at its highest. They had taken a few bites, then headed back into the forest when the sun rose.</p>

    <p class="ind">When a tiger hunts a deer, it eats it over the course of two or three days, divided into two or three meals. Each meal takes about an hour. On the first meal of the first day, they rip out the rectum and eat the intestines. They drink the blood and the warm liquid in the intestines. Next, they pull out the fur and begin to eat the rump where the meat is the tastiest. On the second meal of the first day, they eat the remainder of the rump. They flip the deer to maintain symmetry as they eat. We sometimes found deer carcasses in the woods with just one side eaten. Those deer had died of hunger and disease and then been nibbled at by the scavengers of the forest, such as crows, eagles, martens, and raccoons. To flip over a deer or a wild boar, a predator has to have the strength of a tiger, leopard, or, at the very least, lynx.</p>

    <p class="ind">On the second day, the tiger eats the back and chest of the deer, and then whatever is left on the third day. There’s not much remaining by then, so they lick the meat clean off the bones. If they’re still hungry, they’ll also eat the scalp and the stomach (but not its contents). When a tiger is eating, it concentrates on finishing off the prey it has caught instead of hunting new prey, even when there is prey nearby. This shows that the Siberian tiger is sensible, not greedy.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE FULL MOON</small> rose, and a dark shadow lurked on the coastal cliff, which was saturated with moonlight. The shadow seemed to be eating something, as it alternately lifted and lowered its head. The beast cast a large shadow on the cliff. Another shadow grew as it approached. The crouching shadow suddenly jumped to its feet. The approaching shadow shrunk as it retreated. Each time the first shadow reclined and stood, the second shadow advanced and retreated. As they repeated this dance, the second tiger’s shadow appeared to be flapping in the wind that whirled off the coastal cliff.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Sky and White Snow were back for the deer. But something strange was going on. The affection of yesterday’s play session was gone, and one sibling was shooing away the other. The one with the deer dragged it into the dark forest. The other followed. On the breaking waves, moonlight glittered like a school of silver fish.</p>

    <p class="ind">The next day, I spotted a deer carcass in the young pine grove under the drooping green branches. A row of shrubs stood next to the half-eaten deer, and beyond that was the blue sea. This was the very spot Bloody Mary’s family had shared a deer the previous summer when Khajain was visiting. In the night, the tiger had dragged the deer into the pine grove and eaten more than half of it. I kept the lens focused on the pine grove and turned on the camera every ten minutes.</p>

    <p class="ind">Around four in the afternoon, White Sky appeared from the far side of the pine grove. I was surprised that he had shown up so early and wondered whether the gray sky threatening to snow or his careless immaturity was to blame. I hadn’t noticed it the previous night, but he had grown in the two months since I’d last seen him. His ruff was fuller and his shoulder blades jutted out. He looked like a real Ussuri tiger now. In this period right before independence, male and female tigers show a stark physical difference in terms of bone structure and size. Males grow miraculously fast and develop bolder personalities.</p>

    <p class="ind">I carefully focused the lens on White Sky. When filming a tiger, you must keep your eyes on their eyes to gauge their thoughts and determine whether it’s a good idea to move the lens at any given moment. It’s dangerous to film a tiger without keeping its eyes in the viewfinder. When I find myself unable to see the tiger’s eyes while filming, I move the lens as little as possible, slowly zoom out, and find a moment when the tiger is not looking to fix the camera angle.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Sky made sure that the area was safe before sitting down to eat his deer. Just then, White Snow appeared behind White Sky’s wide back. She slowly advanced toward her brother, who sprang to his feet and growled at her. White Snow hesitated, and White Sky returned his focus to his deer. This was a very different picture from what I had seen two months earlier when they had gotten along. White Snow hesitantly inched forward again. White Sky roared even louder and lunged at White Snow. He couldn’t bring himself to bite her, but stood with his face right in hers. He threatened her with a terrifying growl drawn from deep within that vibrated in his throat on its way out. His ghostly breath struck her brow. White Snow stared blankly back at him, not understanding what was happening. As her brother continued to growl, White Snow skulked back in retreat.</p>

    <p class="ind">Now that he had chased White Snow far enough away, White Sky returned to his deer. Pretending to sniff the base of a pine, White Snow glanced over at White Sky. She continued to pretend she didn’t care as she slowly approached again. Without turning around, White Sky let out a low growl as he ate his deer, as if to say he knew what she was up to. White Snow, still hesitant, plopped down on the ground and watched him eat. White Sky didn’t care if his sister was watching or not; he finished off the rest of the deer.</p>

    <p class="ind">They were no longer affectionate siblings who shared what their mother hunted for them. White Sky had entered a phase in his life in which he felt more comfortable being alone. He was going through the same rite of passage that his father and his father’s father had gone through—one that everyone goes through. Like spring acorns budding into oak sprouts competing with one another for soil and nutrients, the brother and sister would fight each other for larger hunting grounds before long. When he was older, White Sky would have to compete with the alpha male of the region, Khajain, the Great King and his own father. Khajain had gone through the same thing, as had Tail and Kuchi Mapa, the two Great Kings before him.</p>

    <p class="ind">After brother and sister left, snow fell on the empty forest, piling layer by layer on the young pines. Time passed in the bunker, too.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>