<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-23">CHAPTER 20</h1>
  

    <h1 class="chaptit">Season of Melting Snow</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>I STARED OUT</small> of the bunker all morning. In the warmth of the sun, I could almost hear the ice cave of the northerly winds closing up. The peaks and mountainsides were all covered in snow, but in a sunny spot at the bottom of the hill, sunlight glistened on dry blades of grass. Yellow Amur Adonises had sprung up in the snow. Drawing from Mother Nature’s energy, it was once again the first flower of the year to bloom.</p>

    <p class="ind">The more I looked at the sunlight, the sicker I felt inside. I crawled out of the dark bunker and dragged myself to the sunny spot at the bottom of the hill. Was this how bears felt when they came out of hibernation? Sunlight split into rays and spun overhead. I was shriveled, weak, dizzy. I squatted on the ground and soaked up the sunlight. The rays felt warm on my skin.</p>

    <p class="ind">On the other side of the hill, a wildcat was also getting some sun. It looked unwell with its unfocused eyes and chunks of missing fur. Too weak to muster up the strength and resolve to run away, it turned its haggard face and gazed at me.</p>

    <p class="ind">A cold wind swept by. A small whirlwind perked up the limp, dry blades of grass. Bits of the wildcat’s fur fell out and blew in the wind. Greasy clumps of my own hair fluttered in my emaciated face. Dandruff fell from my dirty, smelly, dry head. The flakes landed on a wormwood bud wrapped in fuzzy scales. The wormwood had been quite green the previous summer, but had dried as autumn passed, and the winter winds had snapped off its brown stigma. Nature’s skin had dried and shriveled like mine as it had soundlessly withered, spent the winter under snow, and then revealed itself again. Life was blossoming again under the layers of dead skin nature had shed through the winter. Tears flowed from my wasted body. Like the wormwood and the wildcat<em>,</em> I had lived life head-on. Time, circulation, cycles—their futility and eternity were stark and unavoidable in the sunlight. Perhaps spending half a year observing nature in one spot was a sad thing.</p>

    <p class="ind">The days were still cold, but all living things know there are always warmer days to come. There are lives that cannot hold on despite this knowledge, and those that are full of life because of this promise. The spring draws a clear line between those on their way out and those on their way in. The molting wildcat staggering away reminded me of myself. I wanted the droning waves to give it a rest for once.</p>

    <p class="ind">I received a radio transmission. The villagers at Mayak Village had reported seeing a tiger limping with an injured paw around Mayak Lake. The sound traveling through the radio waves was as hoarse as the echoes in a humid valley. I thought of the military base in Mayak. There had been a rumor going around since the previous summer that the army planned to install booby traps all over the forest. At the same time, I thought of White Snow and White Sky playing soccer with a buoy on the beach. They were the only two tigers we’d seen lately in the coastal area.</p>

    <p class="ind">I decided I must leave the bunker. I stuffed a few simple camping tools in a small knapsack and climbed over the range. My muscles weak from lack of use, I was quickly out of breath. My knees kept buckling. After three mountains, I saw Mayak Lake. The cold air of early spring had met the humidity of the lake to conjure up a thick, gloomy fog that hugged the mountain’s waist.</p>

    <p class="ind">I saw a small crowd of people standing in an oak grove on a slope. On this north side of the mountain, the snow was still as dry as frost. On that white snow, Bloody Mary lay in a pool of blood so big and so red it resembled spilled paint. Her eyes wide open and her jaws clamped shut, she was stiff from head to toe. The leaves on the young oaks that surrounded her trembled in the wind. I couldn’t hear anything, and my mind went blank. I had a stabbing headache.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary’s left front paw and shoulder were shredded. That seemed to be the source of the pool of blood. She’d been hit by a shotgun blast. But the real fatal wound was the one in her side. A bullet, probably fired by a Russian army rifle, had entered through her lower right side and exited out her left. The entry wound was only the size of a finger, but the exit wound was as big as a fist. Blood and intestines had spilled out of the hole, turning everything around them red.</p>

    <p class="ind">The villagers—Tanya among them—explained. The previous morning, a few villagers had been fishing at Mayak Lake, which had begun to thaw. Tanya had been watching them fish. Wild ducks had been swimming in the icy water for days and bobbing among the chunks of ice. Tanya watched the ducks move as quietly as the mountain shadow on the water. Suddenly, the ducks kicked the calm surface of the water and squawked as they flew up. Turning to watch the ducks circle over the lake, Tanya had spotted the tiger. It was slowly limping down to the edge of the water.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Amba! Amba’s here!” she’d shouted.</p>

    <p class="ind">The villagers turned and saw the tiger. When the crowd began to murmur, the tiger roared and charged at them. But she couldn’t run very well. She was dragging her front paw, and something was flapping on her side. When everyone fled, the tiger stopped. She stood by the lake for a while and then returned to the forest. Running away, Tanya continued to glance over her shoulder at the tiger.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary, who had spent her entire life avoiding people, had willingly come out of the forest and walked along the edge of the lake. She couldn’t put weight on her left front paw. Even in her condition, she charged at the fishermen for thirty meters, and she was so filled with rage that she was able to do it with her guts spilling out. She did not pursue them any farther when the people dispersed. She returned to the forest and walked for about three kilometers. Her tracks drew an irregular zigzag. She’d stopped to rest several times. She walked through the forest off the beaten path, but was headed for Diplyak. Bloody Mary had lain down for the last time on the last slope to Diplyak and had continued to bleed. I think she died from blood loss.</p>

    <p class="ind">Before Bloody Mary had come down to the lake, two villagers (named Lee and Misha) had seen her. They were hunting around the lakes for wild ducks that had begun their migration the week before. Lee was an ethnic Korean living in Russia, but he did not speak Korean.</p>

    <p class="ind">“We were looking for wild ducks near the lake,” said Lee. “We were on the forest path when we saw a tiger coming down, over there. We quickly climbed oak trees to get away. When we looked down at it, we saw that the tiger was staggering a lot. Guts were spilling out of its sides, and it was very bloody. It came all the way to the bottom of the tree, growled up at us, and continued down to the lake.”</p>

    <p class="ind">I went to the spot where Lee said he had seen Bloody Mary. The narrow mountain path he mentioned circled the lake and led up and down a steep slope. It was a well-beaten path used by many animals and the humans who pursued them.</p>

    <p class="ind">Lee and Misha had been walking around the lake armed with an old shotgun loaded with bullets the thickness of several pieces of classroom chalk and some military-issue binoculars. Lee had been slowly approaching the ducks quacking and flapping just above the water when he had seen the big tiger coming down the slope opposite him.</p>

    <p class="ind">The traces Bloody Mary left on the slope revealed that she had been bleeding, but not limping. Both front paws had left clear tracks on the snow. Then the tracks showed that she’d begun to run. Bloody Mary had run all the way up to the oak that Lee and Misha had climbed. There was mud on the branches and there were claw marks on the trunk. Bloody Mary had scratched the bark as she jumped. There were tracks of her landing after the first jump, and then jumping sideways. From there, the tracks led down the mountain, her left paw dragging in the snow. I found two yellow plastic shotgun shells, one near the oak and the other on the mountain path. Lee was lying.</p>

    <p class="ind">Here’s what had really happened: Lee had seen Bloody Mary coming down the slope. He’d seen that the tiger was injured and dying, so he’d shot her. She’d charged at him. Lee and Misha had climbed the tree. When the tiger continued to threaten them, he’d fired again from up in the tree. Bloody Mary had been hit in the left shoulder and paw from a close range. When the shot fired, she’d instinctively jumped sideways and limped down the mountain to get away from the gun. Shot through the stomach and already at death’s door, she now had a new shotgun wound. Bloody Mary had lost her composure. When she saw people by the lake pointing at her and murmuring, she’d charged at them, her rage flaring up anew.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bloody Mary had come down along the mountain range from inland before running into Lee. I found blood trails all along the range. I followed the blood up around four kilometers to find an old birch at the end of its life. Tiger fur and claw marks were on the trunk, and the stench of tiger urine was strong. This was a marker tree for tigers in this area.</p>

    <p class="ind">At the base of the birch, dry branches and leaves had been raked together into a mound and then hastily scattered. A booby trap was installed there. The camouflage branches remained, but whoever installed the trap must have come by to collect the gun. A few sets of army boot tracks skulked in the area for a while before disappearing down the mountain. About one and a half meters in front of where the gun had been, a tiger track was trampled on by a boot track. Bloody Mary had been shot here on her way down the mountain. She had sprung up the moment the bullet had hit her in the side and spilled her intestines where she landed, leaving a lump of frozen blood.</p>

    <p class="blockquote1"><em>Bloody Mary carefully put one paw ahead of the other. It had been two and a half months since her visit to the coastal range. She had been busy patrolling Deer Valley and Crow Mountain, resting in the pine nut grove, hunting a wild boar, and stopping by Dipiko and Santago to mark her territory. She had also traveled down the Tachinko coastal cliff where the mountain goats live and marked her territory on Yaloan Tuke. According to the traces on the old tree, Khajain hadn’t returned from his pilgrimage north.</em></p>

    <p class="blockquoteind"><em>Bloody Mary worried about her cubs as she headed south along the coastal range. White Moon had grown accustomed to being alone and was a skilled hunter, but White Sky and White Snow were having trouble becoming independent. They were still together all the time, even though they should have gone their separate ways by now, and they were still following Bloody Mary around. If she hadn’t killed that wild boar for them in the pine nut grove and quickly left them, they would be trailing her right now. As soon as they were independent, she’d take some time for herself and prepare for what might be her last litter.</em></p>

    <p class="blockquoteind"><em>As she got closer to Diplyak, she remembered an incident from long ago. She’d picked up a strong scent of human. She thought about going down there again to check, but talked herself out of it. She was just going to follow the mountain range, see what the humans were up to in the village, and head back inland. Spring was near, which meant the badgers and bears would be coming out of hibernation soon. She made a mental note of the few badger and bear dens she had found at a sunny spot on the Dragon Spine.</em></p>

    <p class="blockquoteind"><em>The lake was just beyond this hill. Heading down the mountain range, Bloody Mary was as excited as if she’d already killed a bear. She saw the old birch where she usually marked her territory when she was in the area. She hastened to the tree to see if her cubs had left their marks there.</em></p>

    <p class="blockquoteind"><em>But the closer she got to the birch, the more she felt something was off. She looked around, but saw no sign of humans. There was a faint but sure smell of metal. She caught a whiff of her cubs’ scent in there as well. She took another step toward the birch to get a better whiff. Her paw caught on something. There was a loud bang, and something hit her side. Bloody Mary jumped. Hot blood poured out of her. She saw the gun barrel hidden at the base of the birch. She was consumed with rage. She went around the tree, dug the gun out of its camouflage, and broke it apart. But she knew it was already too late. The wound was too deep. Realizing what was about to happen, she continued down the range.</em></p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>A CROW SPOTTED</small> the carcass and flew over. It sat on a branch above Bloody Mary’s body and craned its neck.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Shoo!” Stefanovich threw a stick at the crow. “There’s nothing for you here!” The crow cawed a few times and flew away. In the far corner of the sky, eagles, small as black dots, dove and swooped right back up into the sky, which stretched on infinitely. They drew great, overlapping circles in the sky, as free as could be.</p>

    <p class="ind">Spent and weak, Bloody Mary had lain here in the snow. She had kicked the snow with her hind legs and scraped it with her front paws. She must have been kicking right up until her very last breath. The struggle and pain of her last moment were apparent in her wide-open eyes. It wasn’t the kind of death that nature brings like a gift of eternal rest at the end of a fruitful life. I stroked her head and whiskers. Her whiskers were stiff. I remembered how they’d felt on the back of my hand. I closed her eyes.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tiger tracks circled Bloody Mary’s body. One set was small, the other large. It wasn’t clear if they had been there when she died or if they’d found her body later, but brother and sister had stayed by their mother’s side for a long while. The surrounding area was full of their tracks and there were traces of the two lying in the snow waiting for their mother to wake up.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tracks circling Bloody Mary finally departed. The small paw prints were sometimes superimposed on the large ones. White Sky led and White Snow followed. Their tracks headed straight up the range, then paused on the mountainside. White Snow had lain in the snow like a sphinx, facing her mother on the slope. White Sky’s prints circled the sphinx, perhaps urging her to hurry. They had set out again. The tracks disappeared over the range. The siblings had bid their mother goodbye.</p>

   
  </body>
</html>