<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-24">CHAPTER 21</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Commotion in the Forest</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE NARROW DEER</small> River folded and unfolded on its way into the endless sea of trees. At the tail end of a fading winter, the river was lined with towering oaks on both sides, and the ones that had fallen blocked my way as I hiked along. A soft sheen of moisture coated the water’s surface, which had been frozen solid all winter. I held my ear just above the surface and heard water coursing underneath.</p>

    <p class="ind">In early March, I moved to the bunker in Deer Valley. I tidied up the bunker and placed the camera on the tripod. Inland bunkers had a different feel than the ones on the coast. The air was cold but fresh, and I heard the faint sound of birds chirping and a woodpecker pecking. The naked forest was full of stillness rather than the raucous sound of waves. The stillness would persist until the ice thawed in Deer River and the water began to babble.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon had not shown herself on the east coast for over three months, but tracks of a lone female tiger had been found all over the Sikhote-Alin Range, from Black Mountain and Crow Mountain to Deer Valley in the south. It seemed White Moon had claimed an inland territory.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers are conscientious animals. They are constantly on the move, traveling over ridges and around rivers. Except under special circumstances, however, tigers do not move hastily. They travel steadily and carefully with the morning dew on their backs. In the early winter or early spring when there’s less snow, they stick to the frozen rivers. The rivers in mountain valleys form thick ice that makes a good route for animals even after the snow has completely melted away. At that time, the deer begin to return to Deer Valley after spending the snowy winter in the mountains or on the coasts.</p>

    <p class="ind">When tigers move, jays, crows, and eagles move with them, hoping for the remainder of the tigers’ kills. Tigers also visit places where crows and eagles have congregated to see what the forest chatterboxes are up to. They meticulously keep track of everything that goes on in their territories, such as intruding tigers and hunters, and note the changes since their last visit. This sensitivity to changes in their territory allows tigers to avoid danger and competition. So whenever there’s a commotion in the forest, tigers investigate. The Udege refer to this tiger behavior as “reigning over the forest.” To the Udege, the tiger is the true lord of the forest.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>A BLACK WOODPECKER</small> adorned with a red cap pecked at a willow on the other side of the river. There was a hole in the willow about five centimeters wide and a small mound of wood dust below. This would be a new home for this year’s baby birds. Behind the willow was a sunny hill with a raccoon nest. The raccoon sauntered up and down the river looking for food on warm days and returned home when it was full.</p>

    <p class="ind">One morning, as the sun beat down on the snow, a deer carcass was discovered across the river from the raccoon nest. Excitement shook the stillness of the forest. A wood nuthatch, whose delicate cries always made the calm of the morning even calmer, was the first to fly over and peck on the deer for breakfast. A great spotted woodpecker joined the wood nuthatch and pecked pretty vigorously at the deer, making a dull sound with each jab. A yellow-throated marten heard this and joined them. Instead of nibbling at one side, the golden-furred animal jumped from one side to the other looking for a tender spot.</p>

    <p class="ind">A crow perching on top of a tree cawed. <em>Marten! Marten eating deer!</em> This prompted a flock of crows to fly over and make a big fuss. The marten was busy eating and shooing crows at the same time. Shoo one crow, another crow lands. Shoo the other crow, and the first crow comes back.</p>

    <p class="ind">Just then, from on high, a vulture circled overhead and dove at the deer. The vulture puffed up its neck feathers and screeched at the scavengers. After a few halfhearted attempts to fight, the marten scurried off. More vultures arrived; the flock grew from two, to three, to a dozen. They spent more time pecking at each other than at the deer. One climbed on top of another and jabbed ferociously, and another joined in the fight. Yet another ambushed its fellow birds with momentum as it descended from above. One of the weaker vultures that had not gotten enough food in the winter died in this pandemonium. The other vultures fed on the dead one. The crows took a bite of deer here and there while the vultures were occupied with fighting each other and flew off when the vultures came after them.</p>

    <p class="ind">The raccoon came outside to see what the birds were making such a fuss about so early in the morning. It stood there watching the vultures, but didn’t dare get closer to the deer for a morsel. Also pushed to the sidelines by the vultures, the crows started to pick on the raccoon. One hopped around the raccoon to intimidate it, while another hovered over it and nipped at it when it could. A third one sat on top of the raccoon, and when the raccoon snapped at it, flew off.</p>

    <p class="ind">A few golden eagles circling the sky flew over to see what the fuss was about. They waited and watched the vultures’ rumpus. An otter peered out of a hole by the river with snow on its head, and a young lynx emerged from under a snowy log. Its sleepy face gazed about as if to say, <em>What’s going on?</em></p>

    <p class="ind">Springtime in the forest is a time of poverty. The remains of those that did not make it through the winter appear, and the surviving but starved fight each other to the death for those remains. New casualties result from this process. The quiet of the spring forest is instantly disturbed and the impact travels far.</p>

    <p class="ind">The black woodpecker was indifferent to the racket. It pecked away in a peculiar rhythm that reverberated through the forest. Suddenly, the pecking stopped. The black woodpecker stared intently at one corner of the forest. A familiar shade of orange lurked in the thick woods on the other side of the river. The creature came over the hill in great strides and stretched straight up against a large tree.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Caw! Caw! Caw!</em></p>

    <p class="ind">The crows shrieked urgently and took off in unison. The sky was dizzy with the sound of cawing and flapping. The raccoon seized the opportunity and darted at the deer.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger carefully studied the river and then looked down at the raccoon with its tense, fierce eyes. It was White Moon. Her bone structure had widened and she had put on some weight. She was taller and her fur was well groomed—she had grown into a mature, independent, beautiful tigress. She must have dropped by on her way back from patrolling her territory along the Sikhote-Alin Range.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon waited for the vultures and crows to settle down. Mere months ago, she would have snarled and attacked a pestering crow, but she had become much more careful.</p>

    <p class="ind">She headed along the river toward the raccoon. The smaller animal belatedly saw her and scurried downstream. Enervated after being cooped up in its den for most of the winter, its legs did not cooperate. It stumbled and fell several times before it was safely out of sight. But White Moon didn’t so much as glance at the raccoon scrambling for its life. She cautiously examined where the vultures and crows were fighting each other and gave the deer a thorough sniff. She looked up and down the river again. Hunting was not her objective. She was here to find out what the racket was about.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon sniffed at a pile of logs on the riverbank. The trees had been swept downriver in the flood the previous summer. We had hidden a wireless microphone in there to record the sounds of nature.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon snorted, a puff of breath pluming from her nose, and knocked over the pile of logs. Through my headset, I heard the thunderous sound of snapping wood. White Moon had found the exact location of the tiny <em>plastic</em> microphone. She ripped it out and chewed it to bits with her incisors. She then circled the area for other strange scents.</p>

    <p class="ind">Keeping track of any commotion within its territory and checking for unfamiliar smells is a sign of a tiger’s affection for its home. Like a lord in the Middle Ages, White Moon understood that Deer Valley was her land and must be looked after. This was the behavior of a mature tiger.</p>

    <p class="ind">After a thorough investigation, White Moon waded into the middle of Deer River. The sun was setting over the lower end of the river. She gazed downstream at the iridescence. She stood with her back to me, facing the river and the sunset. She reminded me of a cowboy in the Wild West, tension beating just below the calm surface. Was this what it meant to be a wild tiger? White Moon’s orange, glossy winter coat looked fiery in the evening sun. It was like seeing Bloody Mary again. Did White Moon know that her mother was dead?</p>

    <p class="ind">Now more relaxed, White Moon took a sip of water from a puddle of melted snow. She gracefully shook the water off her front paws and sat down by the water to rest. She liked the secluded river deep in the forest. She licked her paws and groomed her fur. She yawned, revealing her large incisors. She rested now with her eyes closed. She seemed tired but comfortable. She took a good thirty-minute rest without once glancing about her.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon got up as the last light of the day disappeared over the forest. She walked along Deer River. For an independent tiger, constant surveillance of its territory is just as important as hunting. Once again, White Moon set out on a long journey along the Sikhote-Alin. Blue evening light outlined her silhouette as she walked. Her slow saunter was partially obscured by the branches hanging over Deer River, and eventually she disappeared.</p>

   

    
  </body>
</html>