<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-25">CHAPTER 22</h1>
  

    <h1 class="chaptit">Tigers and Azaleas</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>I SCALED AZALEA CLIFF</small>, where shimmers of heat rose. The higher I climbed, the steeper the cliff became. The azaleas had already bloomed along the ridge and on the dizzying cliffside. Some had not yet emerged from their plump buds, while others were in full bloom. The light pink petals fluttered in the wind.</p>

    <p class="ind">From the top of Azalea Cliff, Triparashonka Beach came into view. Ussuri tigers watch over their territories from spots like this. There were tiger traces on the base of the pine at the cliff’s edge. After Bloody Mary died, White Snow and White Sky had traveled along the coastal cliffs, looking for ungulates in the coastal basins. Among these, Tachinko Cliff was the most dangerous, followed by Azalea Cliff.</p>

    <p class="ind">I crawled into a bunker dug into a ridge that jutted out toward the coast; from there, I had a clear view of Azalea Cliff. The area was full of rocks and the bunker was right under a pine grove, so it was smaller and more crowded than an average bunker. Moisture rose up from the bunker floor, making it humid inside. I aired it out, finished preparing for the stakeout, and rebuilt the camouflage with leaves and fallen branches.</p>

    <p class="ind">It was April. We were behind schedule. It had been over six months since I’d started the stakeout the previous October. We should have been done by now, but Bloody Mary’s death had set us back. I wanted to make sure White Snow and White Sky were faring well after their mother’s death, and I wanted to get a shot of a tiger standing over a cliff with azaleas in full bloom. We decided we’d stay until early May, whether the tigers came or not. The efficacy of the bunker declines dramatically after May. Lush vegetation makes it difficult to see if a tiger is approaching until it is right in front of the camera, and the rising temperature leads to a stronger human stench that increases the likelihood of being found. In the winter when the winds threaten to penetrate your skin, all you want to do is stay in your burrow. But as the spring days grow warm, the urge to be out in the sun becomes hard to contain. At this time of year, the mental toll of being trapped in an underground bunker is especially excruciating.</p>

    <p class="ind">I detected movement on the cliff in front of the bunker. I slowly turned the lens. I zoomed, found the focus, and locked the frame. All I could see in the dusk light were the contours of the terrain. Then I saw a shadow bobbing above the darkened cliff. It looked like an animal. From the way its head was moving up and down, I assumed it was feeding on something. The head came up again. It had pointy ears like a cat. Was it a wildcat? The head bobbed up again. The tips of its ears were furry and black like the tip of a brush. It was a lynx. It must have caught a turtledove on its way to bed.</p>

    <p class="ind">Along with the leopard and the tiger, the Siberian lynx is one of the three large cats of Northeast Asia. It’s the smallest of the three, weighing a maximum of about thirty kilograms, but also the fiercest. An Udege hunter named Tipui once saw a lynx kill a Manchurian red deer ten times its size. He had told me the story.</p>

    <p class="ind">One autumn, during the Manchurian red deer mating season, Tipui had been hiding near a deer trail when a medium-sized lynx came along. The lynx took a running start, sprung off the ground, and clung to the trunk of a Siberian dwarf pine with its sharp claws. It climbed the tree, scratching the bark with its claws on the way up, and hid itself among the tree branches that extended above the deer trail. After a long wait, a herd of Manchurian red deer, each about the size of a horse, came along. The lynx jumped down onto the back of a deer. The deer jerked about, trying to get the lynx off its back. But the lynx had a firm grip on its prey, using its sharp claws to dig deep into the flesh, and no amount of jerking or kicking made the slightest difference. The lynx rode the deer like a rodeo cowboy, and when the exhausted deer paused for a second, the lynx sunk its fangs into the deer’s neck. It clung to the deer’s throat for thirty minutes.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the end, the deer gave in, even though it was nearly ten times bigger than the lynx. When the deer hit the ground, the lynx clamped down on the throat and shook even harder to finish off the job. Only when the deer was completely still did the lynx let go and raise its head. The gray fur on its intense face was stained red. Tipui said the lynx must have been exhausted, too, because it took a long nap afterward, using the deer as a pillow.</p>

    <p class="ind">Even in this darkness, animals stood at the fork between life and death. The dark shadow of the wild animal on the precipice was a contrast against the dusky sky. Stars came out one by one. Over the cliff where the lynx stood, the moon stretched its slender limbs as it floated up in the sky. The pale moonlight shone on the melancholy coastal cliff. The forest was frighteningly silent. Even the waves were quiet, as if the ocean didn’t want to be found. The wind alone whooshed past once in a while. In the stillness of the night, I heard the gentle breathing of the sleeping mountains. Sikhote-Alin was in a deep, deep slumber. A fox barked raspily in the distance.</p>

    <p class="ind">The dark silhouettes of the pines standing on the cliff shuddered as the wind blew through them. The screeching of the fox piercing through the night sounded like the screams of the pines. Or the shouts of Kalgama. When the Udege hear an unidentifiable sound in the forest at night, they believe it’s Kalgama.</p>

    <p class="ind">Kalgama is a tree spirit that feeds on resin. His body is shaped like a tree trunk, and his head is like the batting end of a baseball bat. He is about half as tall as a pine tree and has two fingers on each hand like pincers. He lives on piles of old trees or firewood and wears a belt around his waist. Legend says if a brave man fights Kalgama and takes his belt, he will have great success in that year’s hunting and become rich. Kalgama, by contrast, loses his power. So Kalgama wanders the forest at night, shouting, “My belt... Give me back my belt!”</p>

    <p class="ind">If someone gets tired of hearing Kalgama’s cries and so much as mumbles to himself, “Here, take the damn belt,” the person will become poor. So when an Udege hears Kalgama coming, they avoid him to prevent their good fortune from being robbed from them and then return when Kalgama is gone.</p>

    <p class="ind">There are other such relationships in the Ussuri forest—not one of predator and prey, but two parties that mutually avoid each other just for the sake of convenience. Manchurian red deer and Ussuri sika deer are one such pair, and the Ussuri tiger and Amur leopard another. Like an Udege avoiding Kalgama, leopards avoid tigers. Thanks to its sense of smell and the tracks tigers leave, a leopard can find out relatively quickly if a tiger is in its territory., A leopard will leave its territory when it realizes a tiger is nearby and return when the tiger is gone. They compete with each other for ungulates and land, and every once in a while, a tiger hunts a leopard.</p>

    <p class="ind">About thirty kilometers north of Tumen River is the Kedrovaya Pad Nature Reserve, which was established specifically to protect Amur leopards. <em>Kedr</em> means “nut pines,” and <em>pad</em> means “valley.” Put together, <em>kedrovaya pad</em> means “the valley of nut pines.” True to the name, a dense grove of nut pines does line the valley. Two Amur leopards live in the nature reserve. The female leopard had been born through three generations of inbreeding. A male leopard that comes by every once in a while has been breeding with his biological offspring for three generations. As a result, one of his female offspring died young, and the surviving female doesn’t have the sharp sensitivity required to be a wild animal; her territory is small, she’s not a very good hunter, and she doesn’t react quickly when humans approach. On the upside, she’s easy to capture on film. But even a leopard with such poor reflexes knows to clear out when a tiger is near. The inbreeding may have dulled her wild genes, but she still instinctively knows that tigers are trouble.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>SPRING SHOWERS CAME.</small> The rain soaked through the earth, which released its heat in the form of fog. The sea’s moisture wafted over, thickened the fog, and cloaked the coastal cliff. The fog shifted each time the wind pestered, and the pines on the cliff revealed themselves through the moving haze only to disappear again. The pitter-patter of the spring shower fell on it all. The fog descended like a ball of wet cotton as night fell. In the pitch dark, all I could see was the pale glimmer of a ship heading into the ocean.</p>

    <p class="ind">I woke at dawn to the sound of birds chirping. I opened the bunker entrance, and blue fog rushed in. It had become thicker in the night and it was now difficult to see the outline of the tree branches right before me. Birds chattered in the mist.</p>

    <p class="ind">The birds flapped back and forth. Judging by the volume and coarseness of their chirping, I guessed, correctly, that they were Ussuri jays. The jays emerged as the fog slowly rolled away. Dozens of them were hanging from bushes, feasting on fruit. Morning dew splashed each time the jays landed on a bush. If they flapped in an effort to pry off a berry, the sweeping of their wings blew the fog away. A halo appeared around the sun, and it looked like the fog was thinning. All at once, the fog evaporated and the skies were clear. The warm sun dried the wet earth. Every drop of water hanging from a branch or bush was iridescent. The jays had their fill of breakfast and returned to the forest one after the other.</p>

    <p class="ind">The sun came up, then went down, then came back up again. One day, just another day in the endless cycle of night and day, the wind began to blow. Like a tiger clamping down and shaking a deer’s throat, the wind bit and clawed at the forest. It swam through the trees by night and down to the beach at dawn. It swept across the beach, working up a dusty blue storm, and the ocean took a deep breath to hold back its anger.</p>

    <p class="ind">New tracks appeared where the wind had been. Living, breathing life could be found at the end of these traces. On the sandy beach as clean as the beginning of time, a single line of flower-shaped paw prints appeared. At the far end of this line was the coastal range leading to Azalea Cliff, poking out through the clouds. The sun emerged and the wet, dark rocks on the beach sparkled.</p>

    <p class="ind">Black stripes on orange fur flashed between the green coniferous trees and the pale pink azaleas. The tiger made its way down the cliff and stood at its edge, looking nonchalantly out at the East Sea. The branches of the coniferous trees lining the ridge shook each time the cold wind wrapped its fingers around them as it passed. The tiger gazed down at the pebble beach through the fine, trembling branches. It turned to look at the middle of the cliff, too. It saw the bear den it used to visit with its mother. The weather was warmer now. The bear probably wasn’t there anymore.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Sky had grown thin. All of his baby fat was gone. But his bone structure was wider, his face was more mature, and there was a depth and calmness in the way he looked down at the East Sea. Like a young man who had overcome the trials of his childhood, he had grown up to be a strapping tiger. Under the beautiful pines, he took a step closer to the edge. White Sky stood at the end of the territory he had inherited from his mother. He was patrolling his land. Beyond White Sky’s thin face, the sharp lines of cliffs and rocky peaks jutted out like a rooster’s comb. Green pines stood along the cliffs, and azaleas grew in the cracks of every rock. White Sky looked good here.</p>

    <p class="ind">A black bird floated up with the ocean wind under its wings over the blade-like rocks, and then over the pines. White Sky turned as his gaze followed the bird. On the steep ridge, a wild bush was bearing navy-blue buds. Azaleas bloomed everywhere, just past their climax. There were hardly any fuzzy buds left. White Sky climbed past the azaleas and up the hill, his back arching and expanding fluidly. With the light hitting the ridge from the other side, the skyline was a clean contrast of black mountain and white sky, with shimmers of spring heat rising in between. The tiger walked along the ridge. His silhouette blurred with each ripple of the haze as he moved through the coniferous trees. He disappeared beyond the white skyline.</p>

    <p class="ind">The day after White Sky’s visit, White Snow arrived at sunset. She appeared on the forest path along the coastal cliff, the dark red ocean behind her. She looked rather more disheartened than nonchalant. She was even thinner than White Sky, but bigger than she used to be, and her face had the look of a mature tigress now.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow stopped at the tree that White Sky had sprayed. She sniffed it, raised her tail high, and sprayed it herself. White Snow was trailing behind her brother. Her brother had grown accustomed to his independence, but White Snow was still torn between her wish to be with him and her need for independence. She followed her brother’s scent because the world was still an unfamiliar place, but the time for independence was coming. She stopped at every spot where we had hidden a small sensor. Her ability to detect anomalies in the forest had grown sharper. Noticing unusual changes and caring about her territory were sure signs that she would be independent soon.</p>

    <p class="ind">After Bloody Mary’s death, White Snow and White Sky had managed to make the coastal range their home. White Moon had claimed a home inland. White Moon and White Sky were independent, and White Snow would be too, before long. They no longer had their mother’s care, but they were each going their separate ways according to what their mother had taught them in the forest they’d inherited from her.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow climbed the ridge, which was drenched in the evening light. Dusk, like glowing red metal, slowly cooled and disappeared. White Snow vanished over the same ridge as White Sky. The empty skyline felt lonely.</p>

    <p class="ind">I decided to conclude the year’s stakeout. My hair was gray, my wrinkles looked like fishing nets, the bones under my skin cast sharp shadows on my face, and my eyes had sunk into my skull. At the thought of seven months of stakeout life coming to a close, I was hit with a fresh awareness of solitude that I’d been repressing, but even in the midst of this sadness, I thought of the summer research expedition and the next winter stakeout. At the end of one journey, I planned the next. I wanted to cling to a tree and weep. I burst into tears. Was I afraid of the dark woods? Or of my own desires?</p>

    <p class="ind">The forest teeming with untamed life dissipated into the background, and I hungered for the civilized world. I would soon return there to recharge, and when I came back to the forest, it would feel like it had been a dream. I would find myself yearning for another new adventure.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>