<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-26">CHAPTER 23</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Chance Encounter</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE EAGLE CHICK</small> whipped its head around and looked at me. Our eyes met. There was a bit of surprise in the way it stared at me, but it didn’t look afraid. Its eyes seemed to ask, <em>What is that?</em> A fly wandered into its line of sight, and its eyes followed the new arrival. Flies swarmed the fish it was eating, and it lost interest in me. Consumed with the task of shooing the flies, it swung its neck back and forth. When a cool wind swept over it, the white-tailed eagle seemed to have forgotten my existence as it gaily flapped its wings, ready to fly off, seemingly with its nest in tow.</p>

    <p class="ind">The young are innocent. They act foolishly, but they’re not jaded. The eagle chick had been born that year, but already it was as big as its mother. It was so large that it filled the one-and-a-half-meter-wide nest in the oak tree. Its tail had turned white. I didn’t know if it was a male or female, but it was the mother eagle’s only offspring, brought up with care and love.</p>

    <p class="ind">I was gaining my strength back and rebuilding the muscles I had lost in the bunker. Stefanovich and I were on our way across the inland region, headed for the coast. We walked for a few days, researching the forests on both sides of Santago River by following a zigzagging path from one side of the river to the other. The buds were unfurling into leaves and flowers, and the forest was clamoring with life. The green grew greener each day and life streamed forth in every valley. An eagle flew overhead and a wild sika deer played in the clearing. Summer had come to the vast land of the tiger beyond the Sikhote-Alin Range.</p>

    <p class="ind">We carefully ventured down to the river. An azure-winged magpie was pecking at a fish. The bird’s head was black, its chest white, and the sky blue of its wings extended down to its long tail. Its colors were so brilliant it could be from another world. It bobbed its head and continued eating the fish. Just then, a handful of crows arrived and attacked the magpie, which had no choice but to retreat to a branch on top of a shrubby bush clover, where it helplessly waved its tail feather. The crows devoured the fish as if possessed.</p>

    <p class="ind">Perched on a dead, dry branch hanging over the river, a white-tailed eagle was so still it seemed to be dozing. It watched the crows for a moment, suddenly catapulted into the air, and swooped down on the crows like a paraglider. Before its branch perch had time to stop shaking, the fish was the eagle’s. The crows hopped around and cawed in protest, but a few pecks from the eagle were enough to keep them at bay for good. A few disgruntled crows pestered the magpie as though this was its fault. The magpie weaved through the rosegold pussy willows to get away from them.</p>

    <p class="ind">Meanwhile, the eagle swallowed the fish whole. It must have still been hungry, for it looked around and then jumped into the shallows with its talons up. It flapped its wings, making big splashes, but to no avail. It finally gave up and landed on a rock, where it shook the water off and combed its feathers with its yellow beak. Then it lifted its tail feathers, left a splotch of guano on the rock, and flew upstream along the water. The blue Santago River wrapped around the thick forest and curved left with the eagle’s path.</p>

    <p class="ind">The chill creeping over my shoulders woke me up. The morning fog was meandering its way into the river and forest. It became thicker until it turned into a drizzle. A silence as deep as death traveled down the river that flowed as steadily as a pulse. I heard something approaching through the fog on the other side of the river. I heard hooves kicking pebbles into the water. A small group of Ussuri sika deer emerged from the fog and crossed the river. The sound of deer wading in water with their fawns broke the morning silence like a melody.</p>

    <p class="ind">We found a shallow area and waded into the river, too. The current was stronger than I’d thought, so instead of going against the current, we crossed the river diagonally, moving a little downstream with every step. Spiders had spun webs on every rosegold pussy willow and baby rose bush. The masters of these webs were nowhere to be found; the only thing clinging to the webs was morning dew. Some webs spun by giant spiders were more than two meters wide, while wasp spiderwebs were finely spun and strong. The small and extremely fine webs of spiders I wasn’t familiar with were hardly visible. I kept feeling them cling to my face.</p>

    <p class="ind">The forest grew warmer by the day. Summer was now in its prime. The farther upstream we traveled, the more we spotted animal traces left by Asian black bears, wildcats, otters, and badgers. Even thrushes and moorhens, rare in Ussuri, made an appearance. Along the river, young zelkova trees, shrubby bush clovers, and baby rose bushes formed a grove, with Mongolian oaks, hazels, alders, and birches standing over them.</p>

    <p class="ind">At a stretch of the river that flowed past a nut pine grove, we took off our backpacks and sat on a flat rock by the path to take a break. We had a simple meal of bread and sausage and drank from the brook. Stefanovich lay down on the rock and started to snore. I sat, all strength drained from my limbs, and stared straight ahead. The forest was full of large nut pines, and the delicious smell of pine nuts wafted toward me. Suddenly, a face emerged from a nut pine five to six meters in front of me. I stared blankly as the contours of the face became clear. Its eyes were so deep, they looked like they were burning from the inside. It was a tiger.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger stood very still with its eyes on me. I couldn’t make a sound—or rather, I didn’t dare. I couldn’t even lift the camera hanging around my neck. The slightest move would prompt an attack. The tiger’s head was enormous and its bone structure impressive. Its ruff was thick and its size was like nothing I’d ever seen. I knew instinctively that this was Khajain, the Great King, the spirit of the Sikhote-Alin Range. His eyes were at once aloof and piercing, and they were focused only on me. The look in his eyes wasn’t one of someone who was caught, but someone who had come to see.</p>

    <p class="ind">We stared at each other for a long time. He twitched his lips ever so slightly. It was an unspoken warning not to do anything foolish. That one twitch of the lip drained the last stores of energy I had left in my body. Khajain slowly walked out from behind the nut pine. I could now see his entire magnificent form from head to tail. As he slowly followed a diagonal trajectory from the nut pine to the mountain path, he did not once take his eyes off me. I still couldn’t move a muscle, but I kept my eyes locked on his as though everything was fine. His gaze squarely on me, I felt psychologically paralyzed, and the tension sent shooting pains all over my body as though I were being stabbed with needles all over.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain continued staring at me until he reached the mountain path, as if to communicate his determination to observe and understand everything about me. In that cool gaze, I felt a psychological distance that I could not willfully contract or expand. Once he reached the path, he turned away and walked on, his eyes forward. He did not once glance back at me before he disappeared into the forest. I felt ignored or disappointed. I returned to the small being I was the second Khajain took his eyes off me.</p>

    <p class="blockquote1"><em>Khajain was traveling along a mountain path by Santago River. Over the</em> thud-thud <em>of his own paws, he heard a human. A deer or boar would flee at that moment, but the Great King stopped in his tracks and searched the area. Great nut pines lined the mountain path. Khajain stepped behind one of them. It would just take a moment for the pesky humans to clear out, and he’d soon be able to continue on his way. That’s what he had always done, and that’s what he would do today.</em></p>

    <p class="blockquoteind"><em>But the humans were not moving on, and Khajain was curious to find out why. He poked his head out from behind the tree to see two humans resting on a rock. One was lying down, and the other was sitting up. Khajain’s eyes met the eyes of the human sitting up. He glared at him. He saw surprise and fear in the human’s eyes, although the human attempted to hide it.</em></p>

    <p class="blockquoteind"><em>They didn’t have any long sticks that smelled like metal. They were not hunters. Khajain did not feel hostility coming from them. Still, he twitched his lips subtly to warn the human. Then he got to his feet and slowly made his way out of the nut pine grove. With his eyes on the human, Khajain kept him bound at a safe distance and took note of his scent for future reference.</em></p>

    <p class="blockquoteind"><em>Once back on the mountain path, Khajain took his eyes off the human. He was not in the least afraid of him, though the human was still sitting behind him. The human was frozen stiff in his place, with fear in his eyes. Still, the perfectly focused gaze of a human being was always somewhat unnerving.</em></p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>I WOKE STEFANOVICH.</small> He stopped snoring and sat up as though he was never asleep to begin with. I told him about Khajain, and the veteran forest ranger’s eyes became as wide as saucers. He ran over to the nut pine to look at the paw prints and expressed disappointment that I hadn’t woken him. I told him I couldn’t move or make a sound, that I thought Khajain would have attacked if I did. Stefanovich nodded. He’d once run into the legendary Great King, Kuchi Mapa, when he’d been walking alone in the woods.</p>

    <p class="ind">What does it feel like to run into a tiger in the forest? One such scene appears in <em>The Great Van: The Life of a Manchurian Tiger</em>, a novel by Nicolas Baïkov, a Russian explorer. An old man comes across a tiger in the forest and has a fierce internal battle with himself. But on the outside, he seems perfectly fine as he continues on his way. It’s extremely difficult to pull that off. I don’t think I would have the guts to do it.</p>

    <p class="ind">What I’d felt at that moment was a distance. A distance that needed to be maintained, neither shortened nor lengthened. I’d instinctively felt that the tiger was maintaining a certain distance and that I should, too. After that, a voice from deep within me had reverberated: <em>Don’t make any sudden moves. Exercise self-control.</em> If I stuck to these rules, the tiger and I could safely go our separate ways. If I didn’t, I would be attacked.</p>

    <p class="ind">After the tiger had gone and I regained my mental facilities, there was one question on my mind. How did Khajain feel about our encounter? In Rudyard Kipling’s <em>The Jungle Book</em>, Mowgli, the child raised by wolves, holds power in his gaze. When Mowgli stares down a pack of wolves, none of them can look back at him. Even the black panther, Mowgli’s best friend, can’t look him straight in the eye. This is because Mowgli’s eyes are human.</p>

    <p class="ind">The human eye can perceive an object only when the focus sits precisely at the center of the retina. In other words, to look at something, one must look straight at it. Most mammals, on the other hand, can see objects very clearly even from the corners of their eyes. This means that, except under extraordinary circumstances usually related to hunting, they don’t have to look directly at something to focus on it. So when animals see other animals staring straight at them, they take this to mean they are being hunted. This, it goes without saying, makes them very nervous. The feeling is all the more intensified when it’s a human eye staring them down.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain must have felt something similar when we’d made eye contact. But he was able to meet my eyes, and his own gaze overpowered mine. He must have read the slight tremor of fear on my face, too. His gaze was cool but at the same time penetrating. I would expect no less from the Great King of Ussuri.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>