<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-27">CHAPTER 24</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Night of Beasts</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>WE TRAILED KHAJAIN’S </small>tracks for two days and examined the path he had taken. His trail continued upstream along Santago River. We found more tiger traces as we traveled. At the source of the river, a young nut pine lay on the ground by a mountain path. Its leaves were stripped off and its trunk broken as though it had been knocked over and trampled. It was a very rare sight: it meant a tiger had lain on the pine and rubbed itself on it. Before long, we found a dropping stamp. The excrement sat on top of a little mound of dirt the tiger had made by digging the earth. A female tiger in heat had left it there. When a female tiger is in heat, she wanders around her territory leaving more marks than usual. She rubs her face and waist against trees, sprays urine, and rolls on the ground to spread the scent of a tiger ready to mate.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers mate year-round, whenever they want to. We know this by the variety of different tiger paw sizes we find in the snow in the winter. They are born in different seasons. The mating season of each individual tiger depends on the ages and health of the tiger, the period of rest required before the previous litter is independent, and the amount of prey in the territory, but the seasons have no obvious influence.</p>

    <p class="ind">Next to the female tiger’s stamp was another stamp. The ground was dug so deep that the roots of nearby shrubs were exposed. This must have been Khajain. The Great King was pursuing a female tiger in heat. We followed the tracks to find traces of many tigers congregating. One was the Great King, the other was another male tiger with paws almost as big as Khajain’s, and the third was the female tiger in heat.</p>

    <p class="ind">The male tigers had left claw marks and excrement piles. There was some blood in the midst of it. The male tigers had fought each other until they bled, while the female watched. Khajain had won and thereafter stayed close to the female. The other male had followed them at a distance and sometimes made his move on the female, prompting another attack from Khajain. The tiger had retreated far away and circled back. Yet another male had approached the female, only to be beaten out by Khajain as well.</p>

    <p class="ind">The indigenous Udege call this period of tigers congregating in the woods every night the Night of Beasts. When a female is in heat, the males pick up her scent and flock to her. The males fight over her every night and sometimes bite each other to death. They spend one to two weeks courting the female and getting rid of competition. Once the Night of Beasts begins, the valley is full of the sounds of tigers roaring, treading on leaves, growling at each other, whining desperately, and breathing heavily out of exasperation. The sounds turn from irritated to sweet to hostile in seconds, but to human ears, it just sounds like the tigers have lost their minds.</p>

    <p class="ind">The mating ritual intensifies as the female gets closer to her ovulation date and she starts to mate more frequently. A typical female mates sixty times in the two or three days of her ovulation. This is why people mistakenly believe that consuming male tiger genitalia will enhance their own sexual performance. In fact, <em>viagra</em> is Sanskrit for “tiger.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Female tigers in heat need to be stimulated for several days in order to ovulate, so even if a young male tiger manages to mate with her first, it’s unlikely that he will succeed in impregnating her. When the strongest tiger in the area arrives, he chases the other males away and provides the female with the stimulation she needs to ovulate. On average, the stimulation and mating go on for two weeks. Another benefit of having cubs with the strongest male in the area is that the cubs will have a better chance at survival if they inherit genes from a strong father and grow up safely within his territory. So females tend to mate with the alpha tiger of the area, the Great King. Since Khajain was in the mix of contenders, he was probably the victor of the Night of Beasts. When I’d run into Khajain a few days earlier, he’d been on his way back after thoroughly enjoying his victory.</p>

    <p class="ind">The female was probably either White Moon or White Snow. Female tigers become sexually mature at around thirty months. From that point on, they go into heat as long as they can secure a territory. White Moon and White Snow had inherited their territory from Bloody Mary and were almost three years old. It could be a female from outside the area, but it was more likely a female that frequented this territory—one of the two sisters. Like the leopards in Kedrovaya Pad, were the wild tigers of Lazovsky also resorting to incest?</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE FOREST WAS</small> thick on both sides of Santago River. The water babbled as it broke into delicate white scales on the surface. The crimson pebbles in the shallows lay evenly, making patterns that glittered in the sunlight and reminding me of a turtle’s shell.</p>

    <p class="ind">Stefanovich and I turned a corner, and I saw a deer drinking on the other side of the river. In June, deer are often spotted near rivers adjacent to deciduous forests. They come down to the river to graze on the tender leaves in the morning or in the afternoon when the shadows grow long. The best habitats for tigers and the animals tigers feed on are oak groves and nut pine groves. Another ideal habitat is a dense forest such as this with a river nearby. Many animals live near rivers in forests, and tigers pursue them.</p>

    <p class="ind">I took a closer look at the deer and saw that its behind was pointed up like a hopping kangaroo’s. Its front legs were shorter than its hind legs. It was a musk deer. It looked up at me. A drop of water rolled down its long neck. Its incisors poked out sharply on both sides of its mouth. It was a male. The deer twitched its nose and pricked up its ears, then turned and ran down the pebble bank. Its fur was white from its curly tail all the way down to its thighs. The hunters of Ussuri refer to the musk deer’s white rump as “the mirror” because it is easy to spot from far away and makes a good target. It’s an endangered species in Ussuri because it has been overhunted for its scent gland. This one jumped a few times with its behind bouncing up and down and soon disappeared into the forest on the other side.</p>

    <p class="ind">We traveled up Santago River to the coastal range via Siaoka. Ten kilometers down the range, we came across a gorge. A small river flowed from the gorge into the sea. We broke our journey at the cliff. The long period of camping outside was starting to take its toll. We were running out of food and battery life. It was time to return to the base camp.</p>

    <p class="ind">Globular shapes glistened in the river below us. Some of them peered out from under the water with only their hairless heads poking out, while others were diving. Some were on the coarse pebble beach enjoying the sun. Their plump gray bodies patterned with black dots were wet and shimmery in the afternoon light. <em>Nyerpa</em> in Ussuri, these were spotted seals.</p>

    <p class="ind">Every female had had a pup born just that spring. The black dots were not yet vivid on these babies, and the gray of their coats was closer to white. These seals live up and down the Ussuri coast in places difficult for people to get to. They eat their fill of herring and Alaska pollock and then come to lie on the pebble beaches or climb on top of rocks to get some sun and rest. They are fast underwater but slow as slugs on land, which makes them anxious and vigilant on land compared to their curious, relaxed selves in the water.</p>

    <p class="ind">A beast is never cross with the animal it pursues. It advances into the hunting range quietly and humbly, becoming stealthier with every move its prey makes. And so it was now. I looked down at the steep cliff and saw a tiger coming around the bend and ducking out of sight under the cliff in one fluid movement.</p>

    <p class="ind">I held my breath and reached for my camera. The camera was halfway to my eye when I remembered it had run out of battery some time ago. It was always like this even when I tried to be careful. I picked up my binoculars instead.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger slowly emerged from its hiding place. It was a small female tiger. She advanced carefully, minding every step, and hid behind a large fist-shaped rock in front of the cliff. She lay flat as soon as she got behind the rock. Her paws were firmly on the ground so she could spring forward at any moment. She craned her neck and spied on the seals. Each time she pricked her small ears, the white spots on the back of them looked like eyes staring at me.</p>

    <p class="ind">In front of the fist-shaped rock was another shaped like a candlestick. The tiger jerked forward a few times, as if debating whether to stay hidden behind that rock. There was nothing but pebbles on the beach after the candlestick rock, which was less than thirty meters from the river estuary where the seals were resting. The hesitant tiger emerged from behind the fist-shaped rock. She got down as low as a four-legged animal possibly could and crept forward, then scurried the rest of the way to the candlestick rock, where she pressed herself close. There, she continued her patient wait for the right moment. I couldn’t see the expression on her face, but the subtle trembling of her muscles showed that she was focused solely on the seals. Because of her intense focus to the front, she had no idea that I was looking down at her from the cliff behind.</p>

    <p class="ind">She was tense like a loaded spring as she readied herself to attack. <em>Sorry, seal. I’m at the top of the food chain, and I’m getting hungry here. Law of nature, and all.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">She broke the tension and jumped. The seals didn’t see the tiger until she had already made three leaps toward them. She was halfway there when they began to waddle into the water. The pups and a few midsize seals lagged behind. She caught up the moment the last seals hit the water. She didn’t bother slowing down as she dove into the river. Drops of water flew into the air; one of the slower seals flapped around in the water. The seal’s firm body thrashed wildly, splashing water everywhere. I saw streams of blood in the water. The tiger had the seal by its throat and was shaking it, trying to pull it onto land. The more the seal struggled, the harder the tiger throttled it, as if she was trying to be polite by killing it as quickly as possible.</p>

    <p class="ind">The creature in the river finally calmed down. The tiger lifted her head and caught her breath. I saw fangs dripping red through her parted lips. Water dripped along her strong jawline and landed in the river over her submerged paw. A limp seal floated in front of her. Red flowed out of the seal, coloring the river.</p>

    <p class="ind">It used to be a myth that tigers hunted seals. The Udege have a legend about the relationship between Amba and Nyerpa, but nothing had been confirmed until that moment. Scholars had found seal skulls quite far inland and speculated it was a tiger that had brought them there. When I told scholars what I’d seen, they were quite delighted. The Udege, on the other hand, were not. The descendants of people who have long lived on the East Sea know exactly when tigers hunt seals—when Temu, the great spirit of the ocean, regains his calm and finally stops sending rain, Amba, the god of the forest, hunts seals. The Udege ancestors know that the end of a long monsoon brings sunshine and lures seals onto dry ground, and the tigers know this, too.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger took a few laps of water and dragged the seal behind the candlestick rock. It was a midsize seal that looked like it had been born the previous spring. The tiger plopped down and began eating. On the other side of the blood trail that led to the tiger, the more fortunate seals continued to bob up and down the surface of the water as they spied on the tiger.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger was White Snow. She wasn’t big, but she was confident. Her body was firm and her fur well groomed. She seemed to have completely settled down on the coastal range she’d inherited from Bloody Mary. She must have learned how to hunt seals from her mother. Living near the sea had probably honed her marine mammal–hunting skills. She had known where the seals would show up, had waited patiently, and had made an expert kill. It had been an amazing sight.</p>

    <p class="ind">Feeling lucky to have witnessed something so rare, we quietly retreated from the cliff. As we hurried along, I got a feeling that the belle of the Night of Beasts may have been White Snow. A tiger’s gestation period is one hundred days. She would have her litter in August, at the end of the summer, or in September when autumn began.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>