<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-28">CHAPTER 25</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Chrysanthemums</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE CURRENTS OF</small> Deer River ran gentle and long. The waters tumbling around the wide turns in the mountains ran slowly but eternally, pulling in the soul of the beholder. The countless ripples in the water danced and vibrated at their own frequency. The harmony was simple and unchanging.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Do you want to try a radon bath?” Stefanovich asked as we walked upstream from Deer Valley.</p>

    <p class="ind">“What’s a radon bath?” I asked.</p>

    <p class="ind">“There’s a place for it around here. Let’s go.”</p>

    <p class="ind">We arrived at a tributary of Deer River and found warm water flowing out of a steaming hole. The hole was yellowish and the ground around it was red. It turned out he was talking about a mineral hot spring.</p>

    <p class="ind">Stefanovich told me that forest rangers sometimes stopped by this radon spring for a bath or to fill their canteens when they were in the area. There were deer tracks around the spring. They must have used them too, to replenish their minerals.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Does it freeze over in the winter?” I asked.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Only part of it,” he said.</p>

    <p class="ind">He told me the brook would freeze but that tepid water would continue to flow from a few spots, so animals could drink from the spring in the winter. I closely examined the surroundings and found some very old tiger tracks. We decided to put an extra bunker near the radon spring for the winter. The old forest ranger was surprised.</p>

    <p class="ind">“You think you’ll see tigers here?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“When you’re thirsty, do you want to wait for ice to melt, or gulp down warm water? I’ll bet it’s the same for animals.”</p>

    <p class="ind">“You have a point.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Every forest has a source of sodium or other minerals. Ungulates frequent these places to get their minerals. They would be at this hot spring even more often in the winter when everything was frozen. The track we found was old, but tigers had been here as well. They knew the springs existed. They must have also figured out that ungulates came here often. A tiger climbing the mountains in the winter must think of the radon spring when it’s in the area. How wonderful to have a place where the vagabond on a long journey could warm himself with a sip from the hot spring and continue on his way.</p>

    <p class="ind">Darkness spread. The moon rose shyly. The river was as bright under the moon as if it were dawn, and the fuzzy leaves of willows glittered like silver. When the air temperature dipped below that of the water, a mist rose along the river. The mist hung in a thin blanket over the water before dissipating. I gathered more wood and threw it in the fire. The fire burned red. The shadows of trees jerked each time a spark flared. Fish jumped occasionally and otters splashed. Silence fell again, and all I could hear was the sound of the currents sweeping the sandy riverbank.</p>

    <p class="ind">I could see glimpses of Stefanovich’s sideburns in the firelight. He looked old.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Hey, <em>maladoy</em>.”</p>

    <p class="ind">“Yes, <em>stari</em>?”</p>

    <p class="ind">Stefanovich insisted that people younger than him (even by a few years, even if they were over seventy) call him <em>stari</em> (old man), and he would call them <em>maladoy</em> (young man). It was a tradition among mountain folk. There was no distinction or prejudice in the forest besides chronology.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Don’t you want to go home, maladoy?” he asked. “Don’t you want to see your kids? I keep thinking about my hometown these days. I want to see my grandkids, too.”</p>

    <p class="ind">I didn’t say anything.</p>

    <p class="ind">“I’m going to retire from my life in the mountains next year and return to my hometown.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Tears suddenly welled up in my eyes.</p>

    <p class="ind">“You’ll be a willow on a river one day,” I said.</p>

    <p class="ind">“And what about you?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“I’ll be a willow, too.”</p>

    <p class="ind">“Have you ever heard of Uza?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“Yes.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Uza is a mythological figure whose name in Udege means “the person who cries” or “the person who gives birth to sadness.”</p>

    <p class="ind">The first Udege who lived on this earth didn’t know what it meant to die. People believed that when they grew old, their spirits moved into trees. Men inhabited willows and women inhabited birches. The spirits lived in trees until they were born again, and thus they circulated indefinitely in this middleworld.</p>

    <p class="ind">One day, Uza was walking along a lake in the forest. Something glistened on the bottom of the clear lake. It was a beautiful oyster.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Uza, return to your house and dig under your brother’s cot,” said the oyster. Ripples appeared as it spoke. “You will find the entrance to <em>buni</em>, the underworld.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Uza ran home and dug under his brother’s cot and found the underworld just as the oyster had predicted. In the underworld was a forest just like the one in the middleworld. A network of rivers flowed through the forest, and animals played. There was no sun, but the moon shone bright and cool. Uza returned from the underworld and covered the entrance with a birch mat. He was worried that when his brother, a famous hunter, found out about the underworld, he would kill all the animals there.</p>

    <p class="ind">Evening came, and Uza’s brother returned from a day of hunting. The brother sat down on the birch mat and fell into the underworld. Worried for his brother, Uza followed him. There was a large dog guarding the entrance to buni. It glared with terrifyingly large eyes and, when it saw Uza, barked deafeningly at him. An old man sitting next to the dog saw Uza and lit up.</p>

    <p class="ind">“Uza!” said the old man. “I’ve been waiting for you a long time. You were the first to create this path to buni!”</p>

    <p class="ind">A spirit that enters buni cannot return to the middleworld. The terrifying dog at the entrance prevented spirits from leaving. But the old man allowed Uza to enter the underworld and return to the middleworld. From then on, Uza became the guide that took the spirits of the dead from the middleworld to the underworld.</p>

    <p class="ind">The circulation of spirits in the middleworld stopped after Uza opened the door to the underworld. There was death in the world after that point. People were born in great numbers, as numerous as there were trees in the forests. And with the passage of time and the guidance of Uza, they flowed into buni. There was sadness in the world.</p>

    <p class="ind">“You asleep, maladoy?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“No.”</p>

    <p class="ind">“How long have we been working together?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“Seven, eight years?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“How long have you been working in the mountains?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“Almost twenty. What about you, stari?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“Me? Fifty years, maybe...”</p>

    <p class="ind">“Where would you rather be, up in the mountains, or at home?”</p>

    <p class="ind">“I don’t know.”</p>

    <p class="ind">“You should go home next year. Spend some time with your grandkids.”</p>

    <p class="ind">“You’re right,” he said. “You know... I don’t much care for my plot in the cemetery. I don’t know what it is about it, but I just don’t like it.”</p>

    <p class="ind">“You’ll become a willow on a river.”</p>

    <p class="ind">“You think so?”</p>

    <p class="ind">A jealous cloud blotted out the moonlight. Before long, everything receded into darkness except for the campfire. The moon occasionally peeked out from between the clouds. The stronger the moonlight, the heavier the cold night dew. The campfire slowly died, and the moonlight flirted with the fading shadows. It was a cold, quiet night.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>WHEN A LIFE</small> ends in the forest, other lives come to pay their respects. Crows and eagles are the first to come. Then the raccoons and badgers. Finally, ants and carrion beetles come to take care of what remains. Once they’ve come and gone, the departed quietly melts back into the forest. But if no mourners come, the fallen life generates life from within to help him return to the forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">Maybe the part of the forest where he fell was too remote for any mourner. Maybe he was left alone because he was a tiger. Either way, there wasn’t a single crow in sight where he lay. Just swarms of maggots that hatched and fed on his body. They crawled in his nose and his mouth. Tens, perhaps hundreds of thousands of maggots formed mounds that broke down and consumed his flesh around the stomach and waist. Fated to live and die on corpses, the maggots climbed on top of each other. The ones underneath slid down like gruel.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Sky was dead. He’d been strangled by a poaching wire. We found him a month after his death on a ridge halfway up Crow Mountain between Deer Valley and Santago. I undid the wire tied to the bottom of the oak. He’d struggled so hard to free himself that the bark was peeled and the wire had dug into the trunk. His molars and fangs were still clenched when we found him. The wire would have tightened around his neck harder as he struggled. It was tiger poaching wire, famous for its strength—the same kind used to drag bulldozers stuck in the mud. The wire would have filled White Sky with despair until the moment he drew his very last breath.</p>

    <p class="ind">We removed the wire from his neck and carried him down the slope. Rotten flesh fell off his body, each chunk crawling with maggots. His strong torso was reduced to one layer of skin. The bottom half of his body had already melted into the forest floor. A white film covered his once cool eyes, and maggots crawled over them. The mere sound of his footsteps had once made me feel alive, and the memory of his breathing when he’d attacked me in the bunker still gave me chills, but he no longer made a sound. The beautiful, wild White Sky who had stood between the azaleas on the rocky cliff with the waves crashing before him now lay dead and rotting before my eyes.</p>

    <p class="ind">We gathered his remains. We stacked some dry branches and laid White Sky on top of them. His body caught the flame instantly when we lit the fire. He dripped as he burned, and the drops seeped into the forest floor. The smoke from his body hung above the Ussuri forest and spread across the sky. The flames looked weary. White Sky’s short life broke my heart. The fire grew ravenous and then slowly died down. We pulled the skull and larger bones from the ashes.</p>

    <p class="ind">Deer River flowed ceaselessly, monotonous and unchanging, as we returned to the base. White Siberian chrysanthemums bloomed on the riverbank, set against the field of green leaves; lavender asters had come in as well. The fluttering blossoms seemed happy and innocent. Foxtails stretched their necks out from the rich bed of chrysanthemums. Tails fluttered at the tip of every thin, long reed. Beyond that, the pale clouds flowed on.</p>

    <p class="ind">I thought of Dersu Uzala, an Udege hunter immortalized in the books of Vladimir Arsenyev, a famous Russian explorer from the early twentieth century. Vladimir had asked Dersu,</p>

    <p class="blockquote1">“What’s a star?”<br/>“That there is a star. You look at it.”<br/>“What is the moon?”<br/>“A person with eyes sees the moon. That is the moon.”<br/>“What is the sky?”<br/>“It’s blue when it’s bright. It’s black when it’s dark. It’s gray when it’s rainy.”</p>

  
  </body>
</html>