<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-29">CHAPTER 26</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Hansel and Gretel</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE RIVER BEGAN</small> to turn solid. The ripples on the bank made strange patterns as they turned into thin ice; these patterns were gradually obscured by the thick, opaque, silver mass of the ice. The freezing spread from the riverbank to the center of the river, and the current struggled to pioneer a new path between the sheets of ice closing in on both sides. When the thinning trickle was finally frozen in, the constant babble of the water grew still and Deer River turned into a white path. But the current always finds its way through the darkness of winter.</p>

    <p class="ind">Then it snowed. Heaven and earth grew still, stiller than the night. The large trees on either side of the river reached up to grab each other’s hands, and thick flakes of snow fell slowly, for a long time. The snow piled on branches and fell to the ground. If I listened carefully, I could hear the rustling of snowflakes brushing against each other. The sound of snow doesn’t rush, but flows ceaselessly. In silence, snow buried the forest, the river, and the bunker.</p>

    <p class="ind">I gazed out onto Deer River from the bunker entrance, my chin propped up. The more I looked, the more I was mesmerized by nature’s white skin. I was overcome with longing for the freedom of the forest as I sat confined in my bunker. I wanted to roam through the snow, run and play until I collapsed. Was life like that snow? Did it come down, pile up, freeze, melt, and then come down again? Another winter had begun, and I was deep into another stakeout.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the forest to my left, the falling snow mingled gently with the snow blowing off the branches. An orange animal scuttled out of the flurries. It looked like a raccoon. But on second thought, its midsection was too long for it to be a raccoon. Its tail sloped at a forty-five-degree angle and then curled up at the end; its ears were small, and its eyes were determined but oddly sleepy at the same time. Its face was young and full of mischief. It was a tiger cub. It had appeared in this deserted forest in the first snow of the year in Deer Valley. About ten meters behind it, another orange ball of fur trod carefully out of the bushes. There were two of them! Against the large, white trees shedding piles of snow, their young bodies were orange and adorable. It felt like a dream to be seeing them before me.</p>

    <p class="ind">The first cub courageously came out of the forest and stepped onto Deer River, which had turned into a snowy tunnel. Snow-covered branches formed the roof, and the velvety snow on the surface of the ice was the cave’s floor. The cub stood in the middle of the empty snow cave and gazed around curiously.</p>

    <p class="ind">Siberian tigers generally give birth to two or three cubs. Very rarely do you find a litter of all males or all females. There’s less hierarchy among siblings compared to other animals. Male tiger cubs tend to be more courageous and outgoing, whereas the female is more cautious. Female cubs prefer to let their male siblings explore unfamiliar territories first before joining them. I thought that the one that stepped onto the frozen river must be male. His sister lay flat on her stomach behind a bush that looked like a bouquet of snow flowers and watched her brother. They looked like fairytale siblings lost in the woods. I named them Hansel and Gretel.</p>

    <p class="ind">Hansel took half a dozen brave steps, then stopped. Surrounded by snow, the river felt as intimate as a cave, but it was still in the middle of an exposed area. He may have been a cub, but he had a tiger’s prudence. He took a few more sprightly steps, then buried his face in the snow and drank something. He had found an unfrozen radon spring. The entire river was frozen and buried under snow, but there were a few small holes thanks to the hot springs. The cubs were here to drink the water, but how had they got here without their mother? And how did they know there was an unfrozen hole here?</p>

    <p class="ind">Wild tigers leave the den with their mother when they’re two months old. At this point, their bones are strong enough for them to follow their mother around. Once they head out into the world, their nomadic life as wild tigers begins. Judging from their size and behavior, I estimated that these cubs were about three to four months old. They had probably been living as nomads for a little over a month now.</p>

    <p class="ind">Hansel lifted his head from the water hole. He licked his lips with his long tongue, contented with the sweet drink of water, and looked around wide-eyed at the snowy world. He appeared proud and confident, like a child in a schoolyard who had won all the marbles.</p>

    <p class="ind">Bolstered by watching Hansel safely drink water, Gretel carefully came out of the bushes, made her way to the old tree that had fallen across the river, and sat. She craned her neck and looked at her brother. Hansel came near the fallen tree, and she shrank, her ears pricking. Hansel nudged her with his snout as if to say it was her turn now, and she quickly got up to rub her cheek against his. She tapped him on the face with her tail and gingerly advanced to the water hole.</p>

    <p class="ind">Suddenly, a tree branch that could no longer bear the weight of the snow bent and let its load fall to the ground. Gretel froze. With the water hole now only one to two meters away, she stayed still. Only when Hansel came bounding up playfully did she take her snout to the water hole. Unlike her brother, she looked up from the hole once in a while to keep an eye on things as she drank.</p>

    <p class="ind">Gretel was still drinking water when Hansel went behind her and sniffed her bottom. The startled Gretel plopped down in the snow. Hansel climbed on top of her and tried to wrestle, but she would have none of it. She lay flat on the snow and looked around in bewilderment. Whether it was because she was in the middle of an exposed river, or because she had never seen snow in her life, or because their mother wasn’t with them, Gretel was sensitive and cautious. When she refused to play, Hansel gave up and played in the snow by himself. He was deeply immersed in the fun of frolicking in snow, licking and digging, running and rolling.</p>

    <p class="ind">A crow lit on a branch and cawed. It hopped up and down the length of the branch and watched the cubs. Snowflakes fluttered each time the branch shook. Hansel gazed up at the black bird that stared at him, intermittently making that awful sound. His eyes seemed to ask, <em>What kind of creature is that?</em> He knew he couldn’t catch it, but he jumped up the trunk of the tree the crow was sitting in. The trunk was straight, and the cub made it only about two meters before he slid down again. The crow looked down at the cub jumping up and down and making a fool of himself. It rotated its head left and right and cawed.</p>

    <p class="ind">Hansel reminded me of a cub I had seen a long time ago by the river. A flock of butterflies had been sipping water in a marshy area next to the river after fluttering from flower to flower. A tiger cub had come out of the forest, snuck up on the butterflies, and pounced on them. The butterflies had flared up like a large flame. The cub had jumped up and down along the river trying to catch them, and then disappeared into the forest. Like that cub, here was Hansel on a snowy river hopping around trying to catch a crow. The sight of a tiger cub playing without its mother was like looking at a happy baby laughing to itself in a crib.</p>

    <p class="ind">I waited quietly, thinking the mother would appear any minute, but she did not. She must have gone to hunt. When female tigers with young cubs go hunting, they hide their cubs in a safe place. They stalk ungulates alone, and when the hunt is successful, they drag the prey to a safe place and return to fetch their cubs.</p>

    <p class="ind">But cubs don’t stay where their mother leaves them. They wander through the nearby forest looking for adventure. When they get sick of playing with each other, they show interest in everything in the forest. They wander some distance from their hiding place as they taste and scratch everything in sight. But they can never get very far. Even if they do, their mother can use her sharp senses of smell and hearing to hunt them down quickly. She then takes the cubs to the spot where she’s hidden the prey, and the family has a feast. This nomadic lifestyle continues until the cubs are independent. Its days as a cub are the most carefree time in the life of a tiger, which spends its adult life alone with no one to depend on.</p>

    <p class="ind">I had no way of telling if Hansel and Gretel were conceived during the Night of Beasts I’d heard months before. But I assumed their mother was White Moon. Deer Valley was in White Moon’s territory, the inland area she’d inherited from Bloody Mary.</p>

    <p class="ind">Somewhere, a black woodpecker pecked at a dead tree with its solid beak. Amplified by the hollow space inside the dry wood, the sound resembled the wooden hand drum monks play at Buddhist temples. Hansel got up. The sound must have unnerved him. He traced his steps back into the forest. Gretel quickly took a few more sips of water and hurried on to catch up with her brother. Unlike her careful movement when she’d come down to the river, now she scampered. The cubs blinked between the trunks of large trees and disappeared into the snow.</p>

    <p class="ind">All that remained was the hollow sound of the bird pecking wood.</p>

  
  </body>
</html>