<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-30">CHAPTER 27</h1>
  

    <h1 class="chaptit">The Future of Ussuri Forest</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>WITH JUST A</small> few days remaining until the new year, the long-awaited supplies finally arrived. Supply days came around once every two or three months and punctuated the long stakeout period like teatimes. The delivery person would bring three hundred rice balls, salt, batteries, and—my favorite—things to read. The excrements box would be sent out, and I would receive a new supply of water.</p>

    <p class="ind">Stefanovich looked tired after hauling the heavy supplies through the mountains. We sat in the crowded bunker together, made tea, ate rice balls, and caught up.</p>

    <p class="ind">Stefanovich said he’d seen tiger tracks a few days earlier. Two cubs had gone over the coastal range, but there were no signs of their mother. I was surprised to hear this. If they were found in the coastal range, did this mean White Snow had had cubs, too? Stefanovich was also surprised to hear that I’d seen two cubs in Deer Valley that might be White Moon’s.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon’s main territory included the Dragon Spine, located inland, and ranged from Black Mountain all the way down to the south of Crow Mountain. White Snow, on the other hand, had settled down on the coastal range after White Sky’s death. The tracks didn’t reveal any territory overlap, but Bloody Mary had traveled from the Dragon Spine to the coastal range when she was raising her cubs, so there was no guarantee that White Moon would not occasionally take her cubs to the coastal range as well. If that was the case, then Stefanovich and I were talking about the same cubs. If not, White Snow also had cubs.</p>

    <p class="ind">I wanted to go look at the tracks myself. Forest rangers like Stefanovich have an excellent grasp on the overall ecosystem of forests, but may not know everything about the minute details of one specific species. Tiger cub tracks are so similar to Amur leopard or lynx tracks that, upon first glance, they look the same. If Stefanovich had indeed found White Snow’s cubs, we had to adjust our stakeout plans. I put my Deer Valley stakeout on pause and followed Stefanovich to the coastal range.</p>

    <p class="ind">He took me to a spot forty kilometers away from Deer Valley. There were tracks on the path to Triparashonka Beach. The tracks belonged to two cats, one with a paw pad width of 5.9 centimeters, the other 6.4 centimeters. Overall, the paw prints were the shape of apricot blossoms, and the absence of claw marks pointed to a big cat. I knew they weren’t lynx, because the stride was long relative to the size of the paw print. Lynx have higher centers of gravity and shorter bodies. These prints were either from tiger cubs or leopards. If they were tigers, they were young cubs of four to five months, and if they were leopards, they were a fully grown male and female. An adult female leopard has a paw width of 6 centimeters, and a male 7 centimeters. Some leopards can have paws up to 7.5 centimeters wide, but those are very rare.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tracks headed up the coastal range and met another set at the ridge—9.5 centimeters. The mother had met up with her cubs here. The paw sizes suggested these cubs had been born a little earlier than White Moon’s. They probably belonged to White Snow, who lived on the coastal range. White Snow, the very same who used to trail White Sky, had had cubs of her own. Time passes and once-helpless children become adults.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow had led her cubs over a ridge and down into a valley of oak trees dotted with the odd nut pine and rock. The valley was sequestered and cozy. There was a small spring where animals would have come to drink before it froze over. The spring had frozen over so many times that it had formed an enormous ice patch. It extended to the cliff’s edge, where it turned into fat icicles over one meter long.</p>

    <p class="ind">The trunks of the oaks around the ice patch were bare up to chest height. This must have been related to last fall’s poor acorn production. The acorn yield had been 20 percent less than the previous year. Many ungulates had left the coastal range for other regions with more food, and the deer and wild boars that remained struggled to get through the cold winter by peeling and eating tree bark.</p>

    <p class="ind">Farther down the ice patch, we found a young fawn shaking in the snow. It had been born in the early summer. The mother was nowhere to be found. The lone fawn looked up at us with its sad eyes. It was so cold and hungry that it couldn’t muster the strength to get up when I walked up to it. If we were to leave it here, it would die of starvation and be buried by snow. It would become crow and eagle food by spring. I felt sad for the young life that would never get to bloom. I pulled out a piece of black bread from my backpack and put it in front of the fawn. It took a few bites. I left a second piece of bread and continued to follow White Snow’s tracks.</p>

    <p class="ind">At the bottom of the valley, we found what remained of a wild boar carcass. There were tiger tracks everywhere. White Snow must have hunted a boar somewhere and brought it here. And then she brought the cubs to eat it. Everything had been devoured except for the head and feet. The boar’s ankles and hooves were hatched with fine tooth marks. The cubs had gnawed at them even though they were nothing but skin and bone.</p>

    <p class="ind">The mother tiger wouldn’t touch ungulate hooves because she knew from experience that there was nothing to eat there. But at four to five months old, the cubs were in the process of growing teeth and claws and liked to scratch and chew anything in sight. From this period on, their adult teeth would start to come in, and their baby teeth would be completely replaced with adult ones by sixteen months. They would start hunting large ungulates once they had their new teeth. They would hide their sharp teeth and claws until the right moment, then plunge them deep in the bodies of their prey.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers have thirty teeth altogether, but the four fangs on the top and bottom of the jaw are especially important—they can hardly live without them. Hurting their fangs—while growing in their adult teeth, for example—can lead to serious problems. Tigers with injured fangs may start to attack livestock because they can’t hunt large wild animals, and eventually they may hurt people, too. So a cub’s secondary dentition is very important to its future.</p>

    <p class="ind">The claw and tooth marks on the hooves showed that White Snow’s cubs were growing healthy and strong, but I wondered if the excessive chewing also meant they weren’t getting enough food. I worried about the poor acorn yield that year.</p>

    <p class="ind">After feasting on the boar, White Snow had headed back to the top of the coastal range. Enormous rocks and coniferous trees stood along the path at the top and framed the East Sea vista. Strong winds blew across the undulating blue waves. The wind carried the refreshing scent of the ocean over the span of the temperate forest right to the foot of the Dragon Spine, which I could almost see. White Snow and her cubs had gone south along the ridge.</p>

    <p class="ind">We followed White Snow’s tracks for three or four kilometers and found another set of prints, which had come up from the mountainside to join them. The enormous paws showed it was Khajain, the Great King. The very Khajain who had held a staring match with me from behind a large nut pine had traveled the vast and majestic Sikhote-Alin, stealthily as the wind, and returned after six months and over two hundred kilometers.</p>

    <p class="ind">Did he happen to run into them, or had he come to say hello to his daughter? Male tigers are known to visit their cubs and their cubs’ mother, if only once every few months, so it was likely he had come by for a visit. But White Snow was an adult, and tigers seldom visit their children once they’re fully independent. Did that mean he had returned because White Snow’s cubs were also his own?</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain had walked along the mountain path with the cubs. He had led and the cubs had followed. The small paw prints inside the large prints were adorable. If they weren’t related, they wouldn’t have been so friendly with one another. If her cubs had been fathered by another tiger, it wouldn’t have mattered that White Snow was Khajain’s daughter. Tragedy would have ensued. I thought, then, that the lucky couple on the Night of Beasts the previous summer had in fact been Khajain and White Snow—the father mating with his daughter. It may seem normal in nature, but it’s actually sad.</p>

    <p class="ind">Logging and development are isolating tiger habitats, and the number of wild tigers is decreasing in these fractured places. Tigers have no choice but to mate with their blood relatives, but they can’t produce cubs with good genes if inbreeding continues. Three or four generations of inbreeding can lead to stillbirths; the cubs that are born might survive infancy, but they could fail to reach full mental capacity or sexual maturity.</p>

    <p class="ind">If the inbreeding stopped after one generation, it would be okay. But when I thought of the future of the 350 Siberian tigers remaining across the Korean Peninsula, Manchuria, and Ussuri, I couldn’t help but wonder if what I was seeing now was the future of the Ussuri forest. What if White Snow’s cubs met tragic ends? My worry grew as I followed the tracks of White Snow’s family along the mountain ridge.</p>

   
  </body>
</html>