<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-31">CHAPTER 28</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">The Great King Comes Home</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>ANOTHER YEAR WAS</small> coming to a close. Seven days after I moved to the bunker in Diplyak to observe Khajain and White Snow’s family, a herd of deer came over the hill. Half a dozen of them walked down to eat the seaweed on the beach. Their hooves submerged in the slushy sea water, they fed on the marine plants on the rocks, too. Each time the waves hit a rock and water rained down like beads of ice, the deer shrank with fear.</p>

    <p class="ind">The deer had been foraging for food on the beach for several days. There were no acorns on the oaks in this part of the coastal range, either. Even deer that spend their lives watching vigilantly for predators cannot help but take the risk of being seen on the beach to feed on marine plants. This is what happens during a bad acorn year and a harsh winter. In the evening, they retired to the cozy oak grove in the coastal basin to spend the night.</p>

    <p class="ind">An Ussuri sika deer in its prime has antlers with five branches. The leader of the herd currently staying in the coastal range was a male with antlers like that. “Five-Prong” had led the herd out to the beach once again this morning. After he’d had his fill, Five-Prong headed back to the oak grove, his impressive back muscles contracting and expanding. The others followed.</p>

    <p class="ind">At that moment, a tiger flew down from the hill surrounding the coastal basin. The deer fled in all directions. No one had time to give a warning call. Five-Prong, who was at the head of the pack, was the closest target. The tiger whizzed through the bare winter trees and bolted at Five-Prong. The trees quivered in the tiger’s wake. The deer contracted and expanded every muscle in his body to get away, but all he could manage to do was get his long legs stuck in deep snowbanks. The tiger dashed across the snowy field by folding and releasing his back like a spring. With each leap, a small gust of wind formed a long groove in the snow.</p>

    <p class="ind">The orange tiger was an unbound spirit that relied on no one as he raced through life. He seemed heroic. The scene made me think of the cavalry of Genghis Khan racing through the Gobi Desert with a plume of sandy dust trailing behind. This creature was a great warrior, too.</p>

    <p class="ind">The brief duration of the chase felt like an eternity. The tiger closed in on the deer and took the final leap. They rolled in the snow together. With both of them buried, all I could see was snow flying up. The deer’s long scream echoed through the cold forest until it abruptly stopped. The tiger must have snapped the deer’s neck, killing it instantly. The forest was still again. Soon, a pile of snow rose. Some of the snow fell off to reveal a tiger still largely covered in it.</p>

    <p class="ind">When wolves hunt, they economize by spreading out their limited energy across a long period of time. Endurance is their game. They pursue their prey until it gets exhausted. To make best use of their endurance, they work as a team under the command of their pack leader. Tigers, on the other hand, make the best use of their limited energy by expending it all at once on speed. This strategy requires furtive stalking, hiding, sprinting to catch up with the prey quickly, and using power to bring down a large animal like a deer or boar. Tigers developed this hunting strategy because they are a species that does not hunt or live in packs.</p>

    <p class="ind">The oak grove lay under fifty centimeters of snow. The deeper the snow, the greater the tiger’s advantage in hunting deer. Deer can run faster when there’s little to no snow on the ground, but tigers have the speed advantage when there’s a lot of snow because their powerful kicks shovel it out of the way. But speed alone doesn’t get the tiger very far. For a successful hunt, the tiger must also get as close as possible to the prey without being seen. This can be tricky in the bare winter forest, so tigers wait until after sundown to hunt. Nature is always fair.</p>

    <p class="ind">But this tiger hunted the deer during the day. It was lying in wait for the deer to return from the beach. It also took advantage of the wind direction. It blew toward the sea at night and toward the land during the day, so the tiger hid his scent from the deer by hiding upwind. This was an experienced tiger.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger shook off the rest of the snow. It was too far away for me to see well, but his silhouette was large. Judging by the fact that he’d snapped the neck of a deer in its prime, I was sure this was a male tiger. Now the tiger dragged the deer by the neck and placed it under the young pines where White Snow and White Sky had squabbled over a deer the previous winter. The tiger slowly looked around the pine grove, sniffing the air and taking everything in. There were vivid markings on his body. Prominent shoulders. He lifted his head. He had a full ruff and a very large head. He was the Great King.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain lifted his head up high and made a threatening and awful face. He wrinkled his nose and pulled his lips all the way back to reveal his gums. I saw his large fangs. He then breathed through his nose and took in the scent of the air. He breathed in the forest to remind himself that he was home. White puffs of breath came out of his nose. This was a behavior I called “homesicking,” more technically referred to as the Flehmen response; it’s what tigers do when they’re home or at a place where they feel as safe as if they were home. It’s similar to sailors breathing in the smell of land after a long, difficult voyage.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers pick up scents through their gums as well as their noses. Just as the whiskers of a tiger help it balance and maintain a good sense of direction, its gums are an important sensory organ that pick up scent and taste. Tigers primarily use their noses to smell things when they’re engaged in everyday activities such as hunting or avoiding unwelcome guests. But when they feel they’re at an especially cozy place or when a male tiger picks up the scent of a female, they take in the scent and the taste by using their noses and their gums.</p>

    <p class="ind">Zoo tigers sometimes make this face, too, when they smell a female or when they are full and happy in the breeding center where they were born and raised. But people think that it’s frightening when a tiger makes this face. It’s also a little strange when a zoo tiger is homesicking like a wild tiger. It almost looks like he is lamenting his confinement and longing for his home out in the wild.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain scrunched his face several times, but his heart was content. He was pleased that he had hunted a large stag and was content as he recalled his happy memories of this young pine grove. Two years earlier, Khajain had met Bloody Mary on this coast and shared a meal with his cubs, White Moon, White Snow, and White Sky.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain had grown up on the southern coastal range and the Dragon Spine until he’d usurped the old Great King, Tail, and taken over all of Lazovsky. Where I was now may have been Khajain’s hometown. Long ago, he could have played with his siblings here when the wild cherry trees along the brook were in full bloom and drank the cool water where petals floated. Perhaps Khajain returned to the coastal range every six months or so because he longed for his home when he was on the road.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain stopped homesicking and lay down, looking comfortable. He ripped out the deer’s sphincter and devoured its steaming insides. He then used his front teeth to pull out the fur on the dear’s rump. Once most of the fur was gone, he licked the bare skin. Using the rough needle-like papillae on his tongue, he pulled out the rest of the fur and started eating. Each time he chewed, a chunk of flesh was ripped off and I heard the powerful sound of his teeth crushing deer bones. With his head lowered, I had a clear view of the back of his head and his back. The black stripes spelled 王 (king) and 大 (great). He was truly a Great King in his prime.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain seemed to be full. He licked his lips and groomed himself all over. Animals in the cat family are obsessed with cleanliness. They don’t lie or even step in filthy places, and if they get something on their body, they use their tongue to lick it off. Their saliva has antibacterial properties as well as cleaning properties. Wild tigers groom themselves both to protect their bodies from germs and minimize their body odor to hide themselves from their prey.</p>

    <p class="ind">Many zoo tigers, on the other hand, do not maintain the same level of cleanliness. The biggest difference between zoo tigers and wild tigers is their fur. Wild tigers have a clean, glossy coat. Both white and orange parts are vivid. They groom themselves every chance they get. But zoo tigers look shabby even though they’re well fed. They sit anywhere, and their fur isn’t groomed. It’s dirty and oily. They don’t feel the need to minimize their body scent by keeping themselves clean.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain licked the back of his paw and rubbed his face and forehead with it. He looked as cute as a housecat. Then suddenly, he rose to his feet and listened to the sounds around him without moving a muscle. I heard waves, wind, reeds brushing against each other, and a woodpecker pecking a tree in search of dinner. Khajain relaxed again. He shook his body and then each foot, one by one. Then he slowly headed up the mountain.</p>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE MOON SAT</small> low on the horizon. The Eurasian eagle owls were back this year. I could hear them calling and responding. But their hooting was silenced by the roar of a tiger echoing through the coastal basin.</p>

    <p class="ind">I quietly switched on the night camera. Khajain stood next to the deer he had killed earlier in the day. He turned to the forest and roared again. Tigers never roar except during mating season and when they’re calling their family. They let out a short, thick roar or a low growl to threaten or warn other animals, but those aren’t really roars. The roar of an Ussuri tiger echoes through the mountains like a harrowing cry, but few people have ever heard it—neither villagers who live in tiger-inhabited areas nor tiger researchers. Tigers roar only in the middle of nowhere, where there is little chance of exposing themselves to danger.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the dark forest, another tiger roared back. They exchanged several calls and responses, and then two cubs came bounding out of the woods. A female tiger followed them at a leisurely pace. It was White Snow.</p>

    <p class="ind">The cubs dove into the deer as soon as they arrived. White Snow sat gently and took a few bites too. The cubs ate the rump that Khajain had been eating, and White Snow took the chest. Khajain sat with his front paws together and watched them. I heard the ribs snapping. Once White Snow had had enough, she switched spots with Khajain. Remarkably, the four of them never ate at the same time. There was always one sitting apart to keep watch.</p>

    <p class="ind">After their meal, the family members sat and cleaned themselves. They wiped the grease and bits of food off their lips and paws, tidied their ruffs, and combed the fur on their shoulders. White Snow used her big tongue to clean the cubs’ faces and backs where they couldn’t reach.</p>

    <p class="ind">One cub that appeared to be male jumped onto the Great King’s chest as he lay on his back and gnawed on his great front paw as if it were a rabbit. Then he grabbed his father’s paw with his front paws and kicked at it with his hind legs. The other cub playing with Khajain’s tail looked female. Khajain waved his tail like a slithering snake and teased the cub. The cub tried to catch the tail, pouncing on it, standing up on its hind legs like a bear, and then falling over. Like a father who didn’t want to discourage his child, Khajain lowered his tail and let the cub grab it. The other cub, now tired of playing rabbit with Khajain’s paw, played with White Snow’s tail and then jumped up on Khajain’s back. Khajain bared his great fangs at the cub and pretended to bite it, and then played horse with the cub.</p>

    <p class="ind">I named the female cub Mapa and the male cub Kuchi Mapa. Mapa is the totem of an Ussuri tribe that worships bears, and Kuchi Mapa is the totem of one that worships tigers. Kuchi Mapa was also the name of a legendary Great King of Ussuri. As I watched young Kuchi Mapa playing horse on his father’s back, I hoped he, too, would grow up to be a Great King someday.</p>

    <p class="ind">Khajain patiently played with his cubs for a long time. The moon started to sink below the clouds. The Eurasian eagle owl was quiet—it must have fallen asleep. The basin was silent. Khajain got up and stretched his front and back legs. Then he raised his head high, wrinkled his nose, rolled back his lips, and took in a deep breath with his head turning from side to side. He collected the memories of this forest. He did this for some time, and then walked up to White Snow and nuzzled at her neck, making a sound similar to a horse’s whinny. Then he raised his tail, sprayed the base of a young pine with his urine, and continued on to a small brook nearby.</p>

    <p class="ind">On both sides of the brook, big wild cherry trees grew, leaning slightly toward the water. Khajain quietly walked between the rows of trees. The cubs started after him, but stopped when they saw that their mother wasn’t coming along. Khajain walked away without looking back, and White Snow watched him go. He became a faint silhouette and finally disappeared into the dark. All that remained were the gray shadows of the cherry trees.</p>

   
  </body>
</html>