<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-32">CHAPTER 29</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Raising Hansel and Gretel</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>BROWN PATCHES STARTED</small> to appear in the snowy Deer Valley. The snow had melted in a few sunny spots to reveal leaves. In the middle of the white ice sheet growing more and more holes, Deer River crawled on like a centipede. About one hundred meters from the riverbank on the opposite side of the river from the bunker, large trees and rocks were perched on a slope. Next to them was an animal path that you couldn’t see unless you were carefully searching for it. It was the path leading to the river from the forest. An old tree had fallen across the path, blocking it. The tree was now covered with black moss that would have been green in the summer. Clusters of mushrooms were growing on it. They looked like either black hoof mushrooms or reishi mushrooms. One of the clusters must have been very old because it was extremely big and round. Through my camera, I stared at the mushroom and, to my surprise, saw that its flaps twitched occasionally.</p>

    <p class="ind">I zoomed in on the mushroom. The hazy camera monitor awoke and displayed the round mushroom. The mushroom looked like it had ears and was pricking them. It even had glowing eyes. It wasn’t actually a mushroom: it was a tiger’s head. It was peeking out at Deer River from behind the log. It was a female tiger, probably White Moon, since I was in her territory.</p>

    <p class="ind">It was the perfect disguise. The brownish hill where the snow had melted was the approximate color of a tiger. The trees and the rocks were covered in dried moss that had the texture of fur, and there were brown leaves where the snow had melted. White Moon had hidden herself in surroundings that resembled her own fur to stalk her prey. She looked like she was ready to jump out at any second. But Deer River was silent. Sunlight alone glittered on the silvery ice path—not a deer in sight, not even a raccoon. The flat, wide face of an owl looked down at White Moon from a branch overhead.</p>

    <p class="ind">From the forest on the other side of the hill, the sounds of twigs snapping brought a tiger cub running out of the forest. Another followed and pounced on the first one. They wrestled each other for a while, and just as the one on the bottom was about to pin the one on top, the latter hopped up a nearby tree. The trunk of the tree was at a forty-five-degree angle. Perfect for tiger cubs to climb.</p>

    <p class="ind">The other cub hurried up the tree in pursuit. They had a confrontation in the middle of the trunk, slapping each other with their front paws and trying to bite the slapping paws. One of them hit the other squarely in the face and then took off. The one who was hit grumpily watched the one running away, and peeled off a piece of mossy tree bark to chew on. Hansel and Gretel. White Moon’s two cubs had grown by leaps and bounds in the two months since I’d seen them.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon surveyed the area, trying to decide if she should get up or not. Ignoring their mother’s careful stalking, the cubs ran around the forest being their rambunctious selves. White Moon turned to look at her silly cubs. Her tense eyes and folded-back ears dissolved into a look of resignation. It didn’t matter how good she was—there was no chance she would catch even the dimmest prey as long as these two were around. White Moon got up. The tawny owl flew off.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon carefully felt her way down to Deer River. The two cubs ran downhill past her and landed on the water. Showing none of the timidity of when they’d been here on their own, they dashed to the water hole and gulped down the water. White Moon took a sip, too. The wide-open terrain must have made her nervous, for she moved to the hillside as soon as she was done drinking. It was only a few steps away, but she seemed to prefer the black and brown hill to the white, frozen river.</p>

    <p class="ind">Now that their mother was with them, Gretel was as gutsy as her brother. She fought back to the end when Hansel pinned her down. Hansel sneaked away and scaled the steep slope on the other side of the river, and Gretel chased him up the hill. The slope faced north, so the snow there hadn’t melted yet. They rolled down the hill and wrestled each other in the snow. Once they reached the bottom of the hill, they climbed up again. They rolled down and climbed back up several times. Brother and sister enjoyed themselves like children on sleighs.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon’s concerned gaze never moved away from her cubs. She looked relaxed, but I saw flashes of anxiety in her eyes. If she heard so much as the flutter of a bird wing, she whipped her head around to stare at the source of the sound. Ussuri tigers’ vigilance goes beyond anything we humans can imagine. Female tigers with cubs are especially dangerous. Their maternal instincts are in overdrive.</p>

    <p class="ind">It seemed like only yesterday when White Moon, White Snow, and White Sky were trailing behind Bloody Mary. It felt like no time had passed since Bloody Mary’s death, but White Moon was now a mother. Her frequent appearances with the cubs in Deer Valley suggested that she had given birth to them on Crow Mountain.</p>

    <p class="ind">When a female tiger is ready to have cubs, she starts searching the forest for a den in which to give birth and raise the cubs. A first-time mother may prove lazy or incompetent at it and give birth under a clump of dirt clinging to the roots of an uprooted tree instead, or worse, in the bushes. But experienced tigers are very picky about their dens. The den must provide a good environment to raise cubs, and it must be the sort of place where the cubs won’t be harmed by humans or other beasts when she’s out hunting. Tigers like dry, south-facing caves shielded from the wind and rain, with a decent hunting ground like Deer Valley nearby—it’s even better if the spot is hard for unwanted guests to access.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once the tiger has chosen her den, she’s careful not to let humans or other beasts find out where it is. She avoids taking direct paths there, throwing potential enemies off the scent by taking long, roundabout routes, and tries to leave as few telltale tracks as possible. She does not leave any territory markers like scratch marks or excrement near the cave, because when a tiger is pregnant, everything in the world is a potential enemy—even fellow tigers.</p>

    <p class="ind">When a tiger gives birth, she stays in the den for one week looking after the newborn cubs. After a week, she goes out to drink water and hunt. When the cubs grow teeth, she weans them off her own milk and starts feeding them small animals like pheasants, rabbits, and badgers. Once the cubs become accustomed to meat, she shows them how to take apart a dead animal and has them eat the meat off the bones on their own. Once they learn to do this, she brings them live animals and sees what they do with them. If the cubs can’t kill the animals, she shows them how.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once the cubs are big enough to leave the den, they follow their mother wherever she goes. The cubs learn about the forest as they travel with her—paths, shortcuts, dangerous places, safe places, places for quick rests, places for long rests, places where the hot springs do not freeze over during the winter, places where prey appears regardless of season, and so on. Once this basic education is done, they learn more advanced things like what to do when a human appears, how to avoid manmade structures, how to cross a road, how to tell the difference between wild animals and livestock, and how to clean wounds.</p>

    <p class="ind">The cubs also learn how to hunt. The mother tiger leaves her cubs in a secluded place and hunts alone at first, but as the cubs grow older, she brings them with her. She has the cubs hunt small animals on their own. Cubs often miss their prey because they don’t have the patience to wait for it to get close enough. Through trial and error, they learn to wait and to move soundlessly. Then they learn about different animals—how to hunt birds, how to fish, where and when seals appear, how to deal with poisonous snakes, that hedgehog needles hurt, that raccoons and badgers play dead when they’re cornered, that raccoon meat smells bad and isn’t very tasty, that badgers are tasty but have a temper and a long, sickle-like nail that can really cut you, and so on. Cubs learn the basic lessons by being around their mother, but the more advanced skills require demonstration and training.</p>

    <p class="ind">Cubs get their full set of adult teeth by sixteen months. At this point, their fragile claws become stronger as well. They begin to hunt large ungulates like deer and boars. They start out with younger or sicklier animals, but the average tiger can hunt a large ungulate on its own when it is eighteen months old. Their success rate, however, is not as high as their mother’s. The real hunting training doesn’t begin until cubs start hunting large animals. Cubs can get seriously injured going after large boars or bears without fully understanding what they’re getting into. This isn’t the sort of thing their mother can teach them. They must face these challenges head-on and learn from them. After about a year of semi-independence, during which they follow their mother but experience life on their own, the cubs are finally ready to live alone.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tigers are usually very sweet to their cubs, but strict when it comes to their education. For example, when White Snow’s family met Khajain at Diplyak, White Snow kept watch as the cubs ate their fill of the deer Khajain had caught for them before he left. When it was White Snow’s turn to eat and the cubs’ turn to keep watch, the cubs monkeyed around instead of keeping an eye out. Nevertheless, the mother and the cubs took turns “keeping watch.” When it was White Snow’s turn to eat again, the cubs played around by the deer instead of heading up the slope to serve as lookouts. White Snow thought that they wanted to eat more, so she returned to her post, but the cubs kept fooling around instead of eating. White Snow let them get away with it twice, but the third time was unforgivable. She growled menacingly at the cubs as though she was ready to rip them to pieces. The frightened cubs clambered up the hill to keep watch. She had to teach them that when they eat, they take turns. And that when their mother eats, they have to be on the lookout, too.</p>

    <p class="ind">After running all over the snowy hillside, Gretel returned to her mother. Exhausted from all that sledding, she threw herself into her mother’s embrace. White Moon licked the snowflakes off her daughter. Hansel stood on top of the hill and looked down at his mother and sister from afar. He seemed disappointed that no one would play with him. He dragged himself back, resigned, and then suddenly pounced on Gretel again. Gretel wasn’t going to take it lying down. They raised their front paws like wild horses and slapped each other around. One of them fell into their mother. White Moon got up and walked away from her raucous children, back into the forest. The brother and sister were too busy fighting to notice their mother leave.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon called them, a strange combination of a yawn and a roar, from the forest. Gretel stopped hitting her brother and ran over to her mother. Hansel, once again without a sparring partner, looked blankly at his sister as he licked his nose with his long tongue. Then he dashed at Gretel, knocked her down, and ran away. Gretel followed him. Enjoying to the fullest the fact that they were born as siblings, they played an endless game of tag. Keeping them safe within her peripheral vision, White Moon slowly disappeared into the forest. She had her work cut out for her for the next three years. It would be no small task staying watchful until her cubs were all grown up.</p>

   

    
  </body>
</html>