<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-33">CHAPTER 30</h1>
    

    <h1 class="chaptit">Requiem for the Fading</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>HELLO, HELLO. THIS</small> is Petrova! There’s a tiger circling the lodge. Chyara is gone! I repeat. Tiger at the Petrova Lodge. Chyara missing.”</p>

    <p class="ind">The two-way radio crackled urgently in the middle of the night. The second I heard the message, I thought of White Snow. The image of White Snow from the previous year when she had stalked Chyara, the lodge dog, with White Sky overlapped with an image I had of Tail, the Great King. Before he died, the elderly Tail had resorted to attacking livestock.</p>

    <p class="ind">In the winter, the ungulates that live where there is too little food or too much snow migrate to other areas. Tigers migrate with the ungulates, but only to a certain extent. They cannot invade another tiger’s territory. As a result, some tigers come down to the village for livestock, causing conflict with the villagers.</p>

    <p class="ind">I left the Apasna Beach bunker and headed over to Petrova. The path along the coast was cold and rough, but the sea was calm in the low tide. In the light blue fog, seals were perched on every rock, enjoying the serene morning water. I climbed over the range by scaling a cliff. The sudden hike after a long and sedentary stakeout had me feverish and my legs shaking. I stood on top of the cliff and saw faraway Petrova Island in the dim morning light. Behind it were the jagged rocks of Apasna Beach. It had been a month since I’d moved to the bunker on the coast to get White Snow’s family on film for the last time before the end of the winter stakeout, but I hadn’t seen so much as a deer, let alone tigers.</p>

    <p class="ind">I walked for several hours down to Petrova Beach. The trout were running. A school the size of a grown man’s forearm was gathered at the estuary, either because the saltwater was warmer, they were looking for food washed down by the freshwater, or they were there to feed on the sea lettuce that thrives in brackish water.</p>

    <p class="ind">Stefanovich, who would normally be here during a low tide like this to catch trout with a spear, was nowhere to be seen. Chyara, the four-eyed lodge dog who always came out to greet me, wasn’t around either. The trout were jumping, but no one was there to see them. I crossed the beach and went into the lodge at the edge of the woods. There was nobody inside. I went back outside and found two footprints. The lattice pattern was from Stefanovich’s boots. I followed his footsteps for about one hundred meters around the hill and approached two people looking at something near a spring at the foot of the hill. Zenya, the lodge keeper, saw me, slung his rifle over his shoulder, and drew a line across his neck with his thumb. Stefanovich gestured at me to come and see.</p>

    <p class="ind">Tiger tracks were all around the spring. Most of them had been made the day before and had frozen overnight, but some of them were from that morning. The moisture gave the snowy, muddy prints—toes the shape of dates and the ball of the foot shaped like a pear—a glossy sheen. I pulled out my measuring tape. Nine and a half centimeters. It was the same size as White Snow’s.</p>

    <p class="ind">Stefanovich pointed at a spot about ten meters away from the spring. A spot in the leaves was pressed down. A tiger had been resting there and then run away. There was blood where the tiger’s tracks ended. The blood was connected to the dog tracks coming from the lodge. Chyara had tried to run, but spilled blood before she could get very far.</p>

    <p class="ind">Zenya told us what had happened: “Around four in the morning, I woke up to the sound of Chyara barking. She was barking pretty angrily and then let out a yelp, and everything grew quiet. I grabbed my rifle, went to the door and called Chyara, but there was no answer. I thought there might be a tiger, but it was too dark and I didn’t dare get out there on my own, so I fired three warning shots. I think the tiger had had its eye on the dog since yesterday. Chyara was not herself. She was barking all evening. She barked all the way down around the corner where the spring is and then came back to the lodge. I should have figured it out sooner and fired some warning shots to shoo the tiger.”</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger had taken the dog up the hill. We found tracks between the trees on the hill, alongside drops of blood. There was no sign of the dog being dragged, but it wouldn’t have left traces anyway. She was so light and small. It was probably the gunshots that had sent the tiger deeper into the forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">With Chyara between its teeth, the tiger had met up with two other tigers in the oak forest about two kilometers away from the lodge. Their paw pad widths were 6.8 and 7.6 centimeters. Cubs. As I’d thought, it was White Snow who had hunted the dog to feed her cubs. She’d hid near the lodge all night and got him when he came close.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow’s cubs were a lot bigger than when I’d seen them three months earlier. We found traces of the two cuddling up and napping together. They’d waited here and gone out to greet their mother when she returned with the dog.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow must have been very hungry to hunt Chyara. There wasn’t enough food in the forest to feed her cubs. The poor acorn yield in the area had brought on a dramatic shift in the food chain. Deer and boars had migrated to other areas in search of acorns, and the remaining ungulates were living on tree bark. To add insult to injury, more people were turning into poachers. There were no jobs, but there were mouths to feed. As well, professional poachers were increasing in number, and they brought with them tourist poachers from the city in greater numbers every year. The poaching was killing off whatever deer and boars remained. The Manchurian red deer had disappeared from the coastal range altogether, and it was getting increasingly difficult to find Ussuri sika and wild boar tracks. Life was dwindling in the once bountiful Ussuri forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow would have learned from Bloody Mary that it’s dangerous to go near manmade structures or livestock. But she was so hungry and had nothing to give her cubs that she remembered the brown-black dog she’d once seen when she came down to the lodge with her brother.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow had fed the dog to the cubs on a hill tucked out of sight behind thick shrubs and oaks standing shoulder to shoulder. Chyara’s black and brown fur was scattered around. The cubs had left a web of tracks, too. White Snow’s tracks showed she had not stayed long but had soon headed out on the mountain again. I assumed she had given the small dog to the cubs and then gone out in search of more prey.</p>

    <p class="ind">The hungry cubs had eaten everything down to the little bones, leaving only the fur and the larger bones. But where was Chyara’s skull? We followed the cubs’ tracks and found the skull thirty meters away. Chyara had been such a small dog that there hadn’t been enough to go around. One of the cubs had probably brought the head over here to have it to itself. The cub had eaten the scalp, too. The little bit of flesh remaining on the skull was still fresh. They had eaten Chyara not long ago.</p>

    <p class="ind">The cub who’d eaten the scalp had the smaller paw: the sister, Mapa. Kuchi Mapa’s tracks were printed next to hers. It seemed he’d caught up with her after finishing the body. The two tracks mingled and then led to evidence of a skirmish. The mother’s tracks were printed again over the signs of the cubs’ row. Upon closer examination, I saw that White Snow’s tracks were on top of all the tracks and traces her cubs had left. She must have joined them after all of this had happened.</p>

    <p class="ind">We found a new trail of blood. It was a fresh trail, and not Chyara’s. Had White Snow brought them something else to eat after all? But the blood ran along the cubs’ tracks, not White Snow’s. There wasn’t a single drop of blood on White Snow’s tracks, only places where she had stepped on the blood. We followed the tracks.</p>

    <p class="ind">“I don’t believe this! How could this happen?” Stefanovich cried. There was a tiger cub lying on the ground. “What... where’s the nose and feet?”</p>

    <p class="ind">She looked like she was napping in the warm sun, but her stomach was gone and one of her hind legs had been torn off up to the rump. Her nose and one front paw were also badly injured. It was a gruesome death. The little cub who had jumped into Khajain’s embrace and played rabbit with her father’s paw was dead.</p>

    <p class="ind">Mapa must have just died. Her body wasn’t stiff yet. I looked up and around the forest. I felt a chill. I couldn’t tell if the eerie energy was coming from the forest or from inside me. Who had killed this young cub? And why? I searched everywhere, but all I could see were the tracks of her mother and brother, who had apparently been here until moments earlier. It couldn’t have been White Snow...</p>

    <p class="ind">I saw tooth marks on the dead cub’s neck. Tigers have powerful jaws, but not powerful enough to snap the neck of a large animal such as a wild boar or a bear, so they resort to strangling them instead. When hunting smaller animals, tigers snap the spine at the base of the animal’s neck in one bite. If White Snow had killed her own cub, she would have broken her neck. But the cub’s spine was clean, while the rest of her body was covered in cuts and bites.</p>

    <p class="ind">The holes where four fangs had dug in were narrow and shallow, only four centimeters deep. A fully grown tiger’s fangs are five centimeters long, but leave wounds ten centimeters deep. The bite marks on the cub belonged to another cub. There was a trace of another cub lying down in front of the dead one’s body. Its paw was bigger than that of the dead cub. Kuchi Mapa had eaten Mapa.</p>

    <p class="ind">The dog was the problem. One dog was not enough for the starving cubs. They must have got into a fight over who got to have Chyara’s head. They’d had a rough fight over the head and Kuchi Mapa had wound up killing his sister by strangling her. Still hungry after eating Chyara’s head, he’d started eating his sister’s body. If their mother had brought them a ninety-kilogram deer, this would not have happened.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow had arrived too late. She’d followed the trail of blood to find her son eating her daughter. Only when he’d seen his mother did Kuchi Mapa stop eating. White Snow had circled her daughter’s body. She had gone back out to the path when she heard noises, and then returned to Mapa’s side and circled it a few more times. This was a reality she had to face. There was sadness in her tracks—the agony of a mother who couldn’t leave, but couldn’t stay, either. This was the fate of a female tiger raising cubs in the dwindling Ussuri forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">Stefanovich took off his coat and covered Mapa with it. He placed a cross made of sticks on top of her. “I’m sorry. Forgive us, little one,” he said. “The forest used to be beautiful and full of things to eat, but there are so many problems now. No deer, no boars. Nothing for you to eat. There were five of you here just a year ago, and now it’s just your brother and mother. Where did everyone go, huh? If things continue to get worse, there will be nothing left for us to protect anymore. We’ll see what’s left in five years... ten years...”</p>

    <p class="ind">The old forest ranger shook with anger before this gruesome reality. Once called the northern jungle, Lazovsky was now a poachers’ paradise. Dozens of Siberian tigers died every year, and there were only 350 left.</p>

    <p class="ind">My knees buckled, and I sat. There was a hole in my stomach and the wind was blowing through it. I felt a raw, sharp pain from the anger of the old forest ranger and the grief of White Snow. Tears rolled down my face.</p>

    <p class="ind">People would come out from the nature reserve office as early as the next day to investigate the scene. I looked at Mapa wrapped in Stefanovich’s coat for a long time before I turned to leave. I walked away quietly and did not look back once. My gaze fixed on the ground, I suddenly stopped. White Snow’s tracks overlapped the footprints we had made on our way here. White Snow, who had been near Mapa when we were heading toward them, had circled back through the forest and followed us. When we had found Mapa and were examining the surroundings, she had been nearby, watching us. Now that we had left, she was probably back by Mapa’s side.</p>

    <p class="ind">I turned around. In the morning light, the oaks on the hillside cast uniform shadows on the ground. The shadows quivered in the wind and whistled like electric lines. The yellow leaves that had managed to hang on through the winter fluttered. White Snow was in that oak grove. She was pacing and sniffing her cub wrapped in a coat. We hurried on so she could grieve in peace.</p>

    <p class="ind">We returned the next day for the official investigation of the scene. The cause of death, the officials decided, was strangulation by a sharp fang. The scene was exactly as it had been the day before, except the coat had been peeled off. White Snow seemed to have taken the coat off Mapa to see what we’d done to her or to look at her cub one last time. And then she’d headed for the coastal range with Kuchi Mapa.</p>

    <p class="ind">The people from the nature reserve abandoned the idea of taking the tiger’s body with them. Their original plan was to preserve it as taxidermy, but the body was too damaged. To prevent black market trading, we decided to cremate her.</p>

    <p class="ind">That evening, we invited the ginseng-gatherer couple from Mayak Village to a small ritual for Mapa. For these people, the tiger is Amba, the spirit of the forest. The sight of tiger tracks in the forest comforts them, and they mourn the death of tigers. But they also believe that death is the beginning of a new life, not the irrevocable end of one. We needed a ritual to lead the young cub to a new life.</p>

    <p class="ind">We gathered dry branches from the forest, stacked them into a pile, and lay Mapa on top. We lit the fire. A pungent smoke rose and the fire burned quickly thanks to the tree sap. Aktanka sounded the drum. Olga Kimonko, wearing traditional dress, danced the shaman ritual dance around the fire to the rhythm of the drum. I didn’t understand the words to the song she sang, but it was heartbreaking. The Udege had held this healing ritual since ancient times to send the dead to the underworld and Amba to the world of the living. We held this ritual that day in honor of all things disappearing from this forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">The smell of burning flesh spread. The slow movements of an old shaman flickered on the other side of the flames. In the fire, White Snow’s daughter burned and turned to ashes. A young soul was departing. Bloody Mary was gone. White Sky was gone. The bravest, most sacred species was dying at the hands of man. As the flames rose, so did Olga’s song. Aktanka turned the drum over to his son. Ado had gone into the city in search of wealth you can only dream of in the forest, and in the end chose to return to the forest. Everyone at the ritual prayed that Ado would one day hand over the drum to someone else who would keep it beating, and that another life would fill the empty space that this young life had left behind. For the sake of Ado’s future and the future of the forest, and the future of Amba who protects the forest, Olga poured her heart and soul into her prayer until the flames died.</p>

    <p class="ind">After the ritual, Olga said to her son, “Do you know how great the forest is, Ado? There are so many trees and animals. Amba rules the forest. You can cut down trees if you want. The forest will come back to life again. Amba, too.”</p>

   

    
  </body>
</html>