<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-34">CHAPTER 31</h1>
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">The Grief of the Living</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE TIDES ROLLED</small> in and out, crashing on the shore and retreating like any other day. The sea was quiet at low tide. Birds found their way home in the fading light and dissolved into the horizon, where an island floated in the distance.</p>

    <p class="ind">Green hillocks extended down the coastal range and continued onto the coastal basin. The hills looked like a row of gravestones. The blue evening light on the gravestones created the illusion that the slumbering soul of Sikhote-Alin was waking up. A head appeared above one of the mounds I happened to be blankly staring at. The head bobbed as the creature came over the hill. It was far away, but it was definitely a tiger. The tiger’s orange fur was tinted blue in the evening light as it came over the hill. A smaller tiger followed the first. The small tiger was limping—almost hopping—along. The big tiger waited for the little tiger to catch up, and the little one limped past it. The gap between the two tigers closed and widened as they disappeared over the hill.</p>

    <p class="ind">The mountain shadows dissolved in the ambient light, and the blue evening turned to night. A bright, full moon rose above the mountain range. Diplyak Basin was dark in spite of the moonlight. The basin gets a lot of sun during the day, so the snow was almost all gone. The white expanses of snow that had reflected and amplified the light were now gone, and the leaves on the forest floor absorbed the moonlight and whisked away the moon’s energy.</p>

    <p class="ind">The mountain path the two tigers had climbed led to this basin. I swapped in the night lens and waited. The wind was calm and the air clean and cool.</p>

    <p class="ind">Around eight o’clock, a shadow even darker than the forest came into the shrub-lined basin. The shadow took great strides forward and then stopped. Its gold, twinkling eyes carefully scanned its surroundings. The cloud blocked out the moon, and it became even darker. The shadow waved its long tail, turned around, and called at the forest behind it.</p>

    <p class="ind">The cry traveled from deep within along swelling vocal cords and sent its vibration through everything in the basin. A faint sound responded in the forest, and a small shadow appeared. It was limping. Each time it limped, it jerked its tail to keep its balance. It was Kuchi Mapa, the brother who had survived the fight for Chyara’s head. It appeared he had hurt his leg during the fight.</p>

    <p class="ind">The limping cub walked up to his mother, nuzzled her from her waist up to her chin, and whimpered like a child. He may have been hurting or hungry; either way, he didn’t seem happy. White Snow rubbed her cheek against his and tried to console him with the same nasal, whiney groan he’d made.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow always brought her cub to this pine forest when she was in the area. The space under the drooping pine branches was cozy, like the spot under a parasol. White Snow lay down on the soft bed made from decades’ worth of pine needles. On one side of the grove lay the white skull of Five-Prong, the deer Khajain had caught for this family. The five-pronged antlers were just as majestic now as they’d been when they were attached to the deer that had stood with its hooves underwater, eating seaweed. Kuchi Mapa nuzzled into his mother, and White Snow licked him meticulously. He licked his injured leg. Each time his whining got louder, White Snow made a rolling, guttural sound to soothe him. The gentle snuffles of the mother and son sounded like the whispers of forest spirits. A fat raccoon waddling by the bushes turned toward the sound. It belatedly recognized the source and bolted into the bushes. The nasal sounds gradually let up, and Kuchi Mapa fell asleep with his head on his mother’s stomach. White Snow also closed her eyes with her chin on her paw. Neither one budged, apart from the rising and falling of their chests as they slept. White Snow had lost one cub, but it was back to life as usual.</p>

    <p class="ind">The night deepened, and the moon sailed to the top of the sky. The tide rolled back in and started lapping at the shore. The slumbering winds were now awake. White Snow also awoke from her light sleep and turned her head back and forth to take in the scent of the pine forest. Kuchi Mapa woke up to the sound of his mother’s movement. He scratched his chin with his uninjured hind leg. His cute face still looked sleepy.</p>

    <p class="ind">The mother teased her son. The whispers of the forest spirits resumed. To get down to his eye level, White Snow lay on her back; then she gently hit Kuchi Mapa in the face with her front paws. She rubbed her forehead against his face and then bit him softly with her big fangs. Acting silly, Kuchi Mapa opened his mouth to nip her back. White Snow played with him, controlling her strength so as not to hurt him. The mother had taken over the role of the younger sister.</p>

    <p class="ind">Kuchi Mapa soon lost interest. He must have been tired after a day of limping behind his mother through the woods. He kept licking his injured leg. I couldn’t tell if he had injured the bone or a tendon, but he could hardly put any weight on it. If he was permanently crippled, it wouldn’t be easy for him to survive in this unmerciful game of life. His mother was around to look after him now, but when the time came for him to leave his mother, or when his mother’s instinct to mate pulled her away from her cub, survival would be tough for him. If he couldn’t survive the itinerant, hunting lifestyle, he might himself end up a white skull rolling in a pine grove in the near future.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow picked herself up and yawned widely. She stretched her spine by extending her front legs out straight and pushing back. Her handsome tail was raised high. Now ready to leave, White Snow grunted and nudged Kuchi Mapa in the rump with her snout. She headed down the path. He limped after her, then stopped. She walked for a while before turning to see why he wasn’t following. Kuchi Mapa sat and licked his injured leg. White Snow stopped again and gazed at him. Her golden eyes looked empty, as if she’d been hollowed out.</p>

    <p class="ind">She hesitated, then came back to nudge him again. He pawed her hind leg and bit her tail, begging to play instead of wandering through the forest. She turned around and walked away. He watched her go, his head still poised to bite the tail that had already slipped out of reach. He didn’t move in the slightest, taken aback that she wouldn’t play with him. Once she started to dissolve into the shadows, the cub limped after her, his tail jerking up with every limp. The bobbing tail reflected the moonlight all the way into the dark forest. It was the burden of the living to journey on.</p>

   

    
  </body>
</html>