<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-35">CHAPTER 32</h1>
    

    <h1 class="chaptit">The Tiger Lives On</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>THE FROZEN DEER </small>River glistened in the morning light. I saw a thread or two of spring spiderwebs catching the sunlight as they fluttered over the ice. I heard water flowing. The river was thawing itself from the inside out and was beginning its flow by pushing its way through the little cracks between the ice and rocks. Moisture rose from the river, mingled with the breath of trees, and hung on the tips of branches like sheer gloves. The air was clear above the frosty mist, and the sound of birdsong and the quickening, subtle pulse of life flitted around the forest. I felt the stillness of the forest and, within it, the movement of life.</p>

    <p class="ind"><em>Creek. Creek.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">Something was treading on the brittle ice. A tiger came out from behind a cliff and slowly walked down the middle of the frozen river. Its footsteps on the ice had an innate weightiness and the languidness of someone who has had a long night. The tiger must have been returning from a meal, perhaps a deer—speckles of blood clung to its face. Its bones were strong, its muscles firm, and the black and orange fur was clean and glossy. The old trees on either side of the river were its guards, and the birds flitting from tree to tree pecking at worms sung its praises.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tiger turned around to look at the upstream cliff it had just come from. From a spot where a large tree cast a shadow on the silver ice, a little tiger made a careful entrance. Behind the little tiger, a second mischievous face appeared from behind the black cliff and sauntered out carelessly. Hansel and Gretel looked as radiant and lively this morning as if they were spirits of the forest themselves. The appearance of White Moon and her cubs quickened the pulse of the river, and the heart of the forest began to race.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon looked at the end of the winding Deer River, the very spot where, one hundred meters downstream, my bunker was dug into the foot of a hill. Pale pink flowers nicknamed “roe deer ears” had bloomed next to Amur Adonises. Sunlight had melted the snow. It shone on the dry leaves and blades of grass, and the yellow flowers blooming among them each had a little bit of spring in them.</p>

    <p class="ind">I saw flashes of anxiety in White Moon’s tired eyes as she gazed at either the bunker or the Amur Adonises—I couldn’t tell which. The cubs came to her side, careful not to step on the melted ice, and stared in my direction apathetically. The bunker was camouflaged, buried under layers of leaves, melted snow, and spring flowers. It had been disintegrating underground and turning into a part of nature for quite some time, so I was sure I couldn’t have been better camouflaged. The wind was gentle, so there wasn’t much chance it would carry my scent to her. Still, White Moon must have picked up my scent somehow, because she appeared to suspect that something was going on in the spot where I had melted into the forest. Fortunately, her gaze wasn’t very tense and her suspicions were vague. Drops of melted snow dripped from the tree towering over the bunker.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon turned away and lay on the ice. The cubs did the same. White Moon rolled on her back, her white belly fur now facing up, and shuddered as she stretched her legs to the sky. The cubs also rolled on the ice with their backs against each other. The whole family enjoyed the morning in the warm sun.</p>

    <p class="ind">Now six to seven months old, White Moon’s cubs were healthy and grown up enough to handle a spiteful badger and stalk a fawn. Hansel was shedding his mischievous childlike face and turning into a handsome youth. White Moon had raised her cubs well, thanks to the abundance of acorns, nut pines, and walnuts in Deer Valley the previous fall, along with her careful personality, which reminded me of Bloody Mary.</p>

    <p class="ind">Gretel managed to pull out a frog from the hole in the ice. Still not quite awake from its winter hibernation, the frog hopped on the ice twice and then stopped. Gretel nudged it with her paw, trying to get it to hop again. When it moved once more, she stalked it like a cat stalks a half-dead mouse. Hansel saw this and casually walked over to her. He pretended he didn’t care, then suddenly popped the frog in his mouth. He must have been jealous of his sister’s long-legged hopping toy or curious what the slick, hairless creature would taste like. Gretel stared at his mouth. He chewed and swallowed. She turned and walked off.</p>

    <p class="ind">Gretel wandered up the riverbank strewn with yellow Amur Adonises and smelled each flower. She found a nice cluster of them, plopped down in front of it, and put one in her mouth. She moved her face and jaw muscles and chewed so intently it looked like she was eating delicious boar meat. Hansel saw this and rushed over to the riverbank to eat a flower, too. Seconds later, he made a face, spat out the flower, convulsed in dry heaves, and finally spat something up. He licked the top of his nose as though he was trying to get the awful taste out of his mouth.</p>

    <p class="ind">Hansel found a strange-looking mushroom and decided to check it out. He became immersed in alternately putting the mushroom in his mouth and spitting it out, experimenting with nature. The brother and sister were discovering the world under the care of their mother. The sun was warm, and the Amur Adonises on the riverbank glittered like gold.</p>

    <p class="ind">Hansel lost interest in the mushroom and conspired with his sister. The two carefully approached their mother and pounced on her at the same time. White Moon, of course, saw this coming. She lay on her back and met the cubs’ challenge with her legs in the air. Hansel clamped down on her forehead, and Gretel climbed on her back. When the cubs started to get to her, White Moon got up. Hansel jabbed her in the head a few times like a boxer, and White Moon swung her paw back as if she was going to hit him hard, but just shoved him instead. Gretel climbed on top of her mother like she was riding a horse, and White Moon responded by pretending to bite her in the head, but just licked her. Hansel used this opportunity to bite White Moon in the neck. White Moon opened her mouth wide and grabbed his whole head in her mouth as though she was about to swallow it whole. To deal with the little one from the back and the big one from the front, she lay belly-up on the ice again.</p>

    <p class="ind">Even as White Moon wrestled her cubs, she drew a boundary between the world and the safe psychological sphere where her family was. Outside was where she had to remain levelheaded and keep the world at bay, but inside was a warm place for bonding with her family. She was vigilant and prudent outside, but as innocent as a puppy inside. The cubs were at ease, and their mother was affectionate. They were a real family who shared mutual trust and dependence. People think of tigers as terrifying, fearless creatures, but they probably spend most of their lives in the peaceful, affectionate state I saw them in now.</p>

    <p class="ind">But people want to see tigers doing sensational, tough things. They don’t think it’s very exciting to see tigers rolling in the snow with their bellies exposed. But for me, watching White Moon’s family with my own eyes was the most exciting moment in my life with them. You get to see a wild tiger frolic with her cubs only when you’ve managed to reach the most intimate, innermost part of nature. Only when she feels that safe does a mother tiger reveal glimpses of her intimate family life. At that moment, I was truly and completely one with nature.</p>

    <p class="ind">If I wanted to see them do something sensational, I could just step out of the bunker. This would prompt White Moon to attack me with the fury associated with tigers or reveal her beastly side and leave. I could capture this brief but thrilling moment on film and show it to people who didn’t understand her life but wanted to see something wild. But should I knock down the boundary she had built between her family and the outside world? Should I shatter the bubble and disrupt her family’s peace, all for some footage?</p>

    <p class="ind">Although White Moon didn’t know I existed, I had watched her grow, and every one of her gestures and experiences had inspired such strong emotions in me. I had wondered about her when she’d chased Manchurian trout in Deer River with Bloody Mary and when she’d left a long, clean stretch of tracks on the sandy beach. I had pictured what her face looked like, constantly drawing and erasing her image in my head with increasing curiosity. When she’d sat primly on the snowy hill and looked down at the blue East Sea, I’d pictured her as the tiger equivalent of a girl in an orange dress sitting on white silk, and when she’d attacked the bunker with her siblings, I had felt her every breath as clearly as if she were right up against my ear. Every gesture and every trace of her made me feel alive. All these encounters had led to this moment when I got to watch her play. White Moon, her family, and I may not have shared an obvious connection, but we were linked in ways we couldn’t imagine.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon was as relentlessly careful as her mother had been, and her affection for her cubs was as sincere as the Ussuri forest. Looking at her, I knew that nobody had the right to violate the peace of this family.</p>

    <p class="ind">True to their silly nature, the cubs wouldn’t leave their mother alone. They were going through a growth spurt and had to do everything and anything to expend their energy and discover what new things they could do with their growing bodies. The games they played were a rehearsal for surviving in the wild. Nature is a battlefield and their family members were sparring partners. The two-against-one struggle was getting tougher. In Korea, they say if you have a tiger dream when you’re expecting a child, you’ll have a child who looks after its parents. Based on what I had observed, I’d say a tiger child would mean endless mischief.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Moon couldn’t take it anymore. She got to her feet and walked upstream. Gretel reluctantly followed. Hansel lay flat on his stomach, holding the ready-to-pounce position he was in when she walked off, shook his head hard, and got up as well. White Moon’s family receded into the icy landscape, leaving behind long tracks of floral paw prints on the ice.</p>

    <p class="ind">Sunlight beckoned spring as it shattered across the empty, silver river. A film of frosty mist hovered in the dense forest of naked trees on the other side. This was once the Ussuri jungle, home of the Siberian tiger. No one called it that now. But the tigers lived on. I prayed with all my heart that, like White Moon’s mother, Bloody Mary, and her mother before her, Hansel and Gretel would also have children here and bring them up safely.</p>

   

   
  </body>
</html>