<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
    
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-36">Epilogue</h1>

     
   

    <h1 class="chaptit">Diamond Dust</h1>

    <p class="noindsb"><small>SPRING WAS OFF</small> at a sprint before I knew it. The new warmth brought the azaleas, which were followed by foxtails on the riverbank. Leaves and shoots painted the land green, and flowers drank in the morning dew that fell in the spring showers. When summer came, it was hot and muggy. Deciduous tree leaves hung limp in the heat, and the humid air clung to the skin. The moisture rising from the heat of the earth slithered and licked along the mountain ridge like transparent flames. The mountains panted like a beast that had just chased a deer.</p>

    <p class="ind">The leaves that glistened all through the summer heat turned color again, and pools of light formed wherever the leaves fell. Even in the cool autumn light, the exposed underbelly of the forest was dry like hay. Leaves rolled and rustled on the ridges and in mountain valleys and whispered secrets to each other all day. Like a beast putting its cold paws together and covering them with its fluffy tail, the forest covered itself with a warm blanket of leaves and prepared for its winter sleep. Snow fell on everything under heaven and covered the mountains like a blanket, and the forest drifted off for a long nap.</p>

    <p class="ind">The frozen, snowy Kievka River snaked down its winding course. There were fresh floral paw prints crossing the river. The moisture in these tracks had frozen, giving the prints a glossy sheen. There was even a sharp line between the snow and the prints. The prints had been made the previous night, after a dusting. There was a groove like the mark of a stick dragging in the snow where the left hind paw landed. The tiger was dragging its left hind paw behind it. The front paw pad width was 10.7 centimeters. It was Kuchi Mapa. No blood. The winter sun fell across the path of Kuchi Mapa, who had limped across the snowy Kievka River alone. The frail life of an animal on the precipice was palpable in these tracks.</p>

    <p class="ind">The limping prints led to the site of the accident. Kievka River flows past downtown Lazo, continues south to Kievka Village, and heads into the East Sea. A new, unpaved road ran for eight kilometers along the river between Lazo and Kievka Village. The accident had taken place on that road, not far from Kievka Village.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tracks in the thin strip of willows by the river were apprehensive. The limping must have held Kuchi Mapa back for a while. When he had finally jumped into the road, he’d been hit by something and landed in the middle of the lane. There was a pool of blood where he’d landed. Then he’d gotten up and staggered into the forest.</p>

    <p class="ind">The road was quite wide. Kuchi Mapa had probably stood on the side trying to decide whether or not to cross when he’d panicked at the strong headlights speeding toward him and jumped into the road. When something speeds toward animals in the cat family, they try to outrun it instead of waiting for it to pass. This comes from an instinctive trust in their speed and agility. His faith in himself, in spite of his injured leg, had led to the tragedy.</p>

    <p class="ind">The driver told us that something orange had suddenly jumped in front of the headlights. I’ll bet Kuchi Mapa ran as fast as he could in spite of his leg, but he could not have outrun the land cruiser jeep speeding down Kievka Hill. The driver said the animal had hit the bumper and sprang outside the pool of his headlights. When the driver turned around and shone his headlights on the road, the animal had already gone. He said he couldn’t see very well, but it looked like a tiger. There was a big dent in the front bumper of his jeep. The impact would have been considerable.</p>

    <p class="ind">The tracks continued through the fir grove on the other side of the road, scrawling an <em>S</em> on the ground. Kuchi Mapa’s stride became narrower, and the back leg dragged more the farther the tracks went. The front paws started to drag as well, which was something that only old male tigers did. There were drops of blood in the snow. But what got to me was how the tracks suggested he had been shaking with every step he took.</p>

    <p class="ind">We followed the tracks for about two kilometers and came to the spot where he had rested. In the snow was a deep imprint of a tiger from head to tail. There was frozen blood in the stomach area, and the amount of blood suggested he had lain there for quite some time.</p>

    <p class="ind">A fresh set of prints lurked around Kuchi Mapa’s imprint in the snow. The front paw width was nine and a half centimeters. It was White Snow. White Snow had caught up with her son after being off somewhere on her own. She must have been stalking prey. There was a depression in the snow of her where she had lain next to him. Comprehending the situation he was in, she had lain by his side and licked his wound.</p>

    <p class="ind">Kuchi Mapa must have regained his strength after some time. The tracks continued as he’d walked with his mother. There was another indentation in the snow alongside Kuchi Mapa’s footsteps. It looked like a stick had been pulled through the snow. He’d been dragging his tail. Tigers never so much as let their tails touch the ground when they walk. Unless they’re trying to change direction in the middle of sprinting or they’re walking through snow that comes up to their knees, their tails never drag. The only time their tails hang that low is when they’re about to die.</p>

    <p class="ind">Half a kilometer farther in, we came to a cozy clearing surrounded by firs. Big trees towered over the younger, shorter ones. Some trees that had lost the battle for sunlight and nutrients looked on quietly, dry and dead. The northwesterly wind traveling over the mountain range shook the fir branches. The snow on the branches blew in the wind. The diamond dust that had been hanging in the air since morning mingled with snowflakes and fell down as glitter. Here, White Snow’s son lay frozen in eternal sleep. He had won his battle with his sister, but could not prevail over his own fate.</p>

    <p class="ind">Kuchi Mapa was thin and bigger than when I’d last seen him, but smaller than other cubs his age. He had broken several ribs in the accident and bled internally. Just like when his grandmother, Bloody Mary, had died, his side had split open and his intestines had spilled out. The blood was already congealed and frozen. His injured leg had healed, at least on the surface, leaving old scar tissue on the shin. Eighteen months old. If he hadn’t hurt his leg, he would have been semi-independent by now. And alive.</p>

    <p class="ind">White Snow had paced as she’d waited for him to get up. She had tried to make him get back on his feet and continue on. There were deep pits in the snow near her son’s tail and back where a snout had dug under the body and tried to push it up. She had known he was dying. She’d also known there was nothing she could do. Marks of White Snow’s despair were carved into the snow. I wondered what the son had thought as his mother kept nudging him. In the end, he wasn’t able to get up. The life of White Snow’s son, at least in this world, came to an end. Perhaps it had all been fate. White Snow was her son’s one chance in life. He wouldn’t have been able to make it on his own, but would have been forced to anyway. He had come to the end of his perilous life in this cold snowy bed.</p>

    <p class="ind">His eyes were shining. He didn’t look like he had suffered. In his eyes, I saw the empty space after the soul has departed, entrusting its body to nature. I closed them. I dusted off the snowflakes that clung tenaciously to his stiff body. We carried his body onto a sled, took it to the road where a truck waited, and transported him to the nature reserve office. White Snow’s son would be taken apart and taxidermied.</p>

    <p class="ind">Three days later, I visited the fir grove again. There were fresh prints where we had found White Snow’s son. White Snow had still been there. She had been lingering in the forest where he’d died, looking for him, or missing him.</p>

    <p class="ind">A dusting of snow came down the next day. Snow powder descended slowly from the sky from early morning on. All traces of the past were buried under snow, and nature was ready to record a new chapter. There were no more flower-shaped paw prints. I didn’t know how White Snow would remember this time in her life, but she had left without a trace to erase her past and write her life anew.</p>

    <p class="ind">Cold morning light filtered in through the jagged fir branches. A rainbow appeared above the powdery snow, which floated down like dust. Loose piles of white on the fir branches blew away with needles in the gentle breeze. The fresh snow and the diamond dust in the sun turned the forest into a sparkling, magical place, and the sunlight shone in all the colors of the rainbow.</p>
 

 
</body>
</html>