<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
  
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-38">FOREWORD</h1>

      <h1 class="chaptit2">by John Vaillant</h1>
   
    <p class="noindsb"><small>THIS BOOK IS</small> a personal account of one of the most extraordinary wildlife studies ever undertaken. That its focus was on Siberian tigers, arguably the most difficult tiger subspecies to study in the wild, only makes Sooyong Park’s accomplishment that much more remarkable. Many of his observations were made from an earthen bunker scarcely larger than a grave where, over a period of years, he sequestered himself for months at a time in subzero temperatures. The fact that Park survived these extended periods of solitary confinement with body and soul intact is astonishing in itself. That he emerged with enough film footage for seven documentaries and the inspiration for this beautiful, necessary book makes it a unique achievement.</p>

    <p class="ind">Park’s radical method was based on his understanding that Siberian tigers do not forgive disturbances to their natural order. If something doesn’t look, smell, or feel right, the tiger will either find and destroy the cause or vacate the premises so thoroughly that any hope of future sightings there is lost. Park solved this problem by disappearing himself to the point that he would not register with the tigers’ acute hearing, vision, or sense of smell. And then he waited—sometimes for months—for a tiger to come by. Relegating oneself to such a state of egoless oblivion is difficult, even dangerous, for humans to do, but there is no shortcut to the kind of intimacy Park aspired to with his subjects. Rigorous self-abnegation is the only way to see tigers in their natural state: hunting, feeding, relaxing, courting, playing with their cubs. “When I [am] humble,” Park told one interviewer, “I can see nature more deeply.”</p>

    <p class="ind">Park’s humility is evident throughout these pages, and it is often attended by a striking lyricism that, even in translation, reminded me that most of what has been written about Siberian tigers comes to us through English and Russian. I had the feeling, reading <em>Great Soul of Siberia</em>, that it could not have been written by a Westerner. Unlike most tiger researchers, Park is local: raised in the Sobaek Mountains of South Korea—former tiger country—he is the product of a culture whose poetic tradition dates back at least two thousand years. Perhaps it is this, combined with his background in literature, that explains a lyricism, tone, and intimacy with the landscape and its inhabitants, human and animal alike, that I haven’t encountered in other tiger literature. Park’s distinctive voice, coupled with the fierce and monastic dedication of his vigil, brings us so close to this extraordinary animal that we can feel, as he did, the tiger’s breath on our face, her whiskers brushing against our hand.</p>

    <p class="ind">It may seem strange to use the word “personal” when talking about tigers, but this is the overriding feeling I had while reading Park’s book. Spending time in his wild, frozen world, I came to realize that “personal” is another way of saying “intimate,” which in this context also means “mammalian.” Park is writing about tigers, but he is also writing about families—the domestic life of tigers in the wild. And it is through these relationships that we gain a window into the heart and soul of Park himself, a family man who aspires also to be a “Man of Nature.” Viewing these animals through Park’s inclusive, empathic lens, we are privy to scenes that are both familial and familiar: birth and death, satisfaction and desire, tenderness and cruelty, teaching and learning, mischief and discipline, comedy and tragedy—the full spectrum of family life as it pertains not only to <em>Homo sapiens</em> but to all higher mammals. As a vicarious witness to these private scenes, many of which have never been observed, much less filmed, in the wild before (a father keeping watch while his cubs feed; a mother filling in as a sparring partner for a cub who’s lost a sibling), I felt the boundaries between “us” and “them” begin to waver and dissolve. I found myself wondering how similarly we might behave if we lived outdoors all year round in a forest where temperatures drop below −30°C and we had to hunt large game to survive; how we would cope trying to feed a family while being hunted ourselves.</p>

    <p class="ind">And it is this, the generous invitation to see and feel beyond our own boundaries and to explore the harsh and tenuous reality of one of our shared planet’s most compelling creatures, that is the greatest gift a Man of Nature like Sooyong Park can give us. <em>Great Soul of Siberia</em> offers a unique portal through which we can find common ground—and perhaps common cause—with these rare and elusive animals that seem so profoundly different from us, but with whom, as Park so eloquently demonstrates, we share so much.</p>
  
</body>
</html>