<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" standalone="no" ?><!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd"><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Great Soul of Siberia ARC</title>
  <link href="../Styles/GreatSoul__idstyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>

<body>
 
      <h1 class="chapnum" id="toc_marker-2">PROLOGUE</h1>

 
    <p class="noindsb"><small>SINCE 1995, I’VE</small> been researching and observing wild tigers in Manchuria, the North Korean border region, and Ussuri (officially known as Primorsky Krai), which together form the southeastern corner of Siberia. I’ve spent half of each year wandering forests and climbing mountains in search of tracks and the other half in underground bunkers filming tigers in -30°C weather. Twenty years of waiting for tigers that seldom come has been a frustrating and humbling experience, but ultimately a rewarding one that has yielded seven documentaries on Siberian tigers, including <em>Siberian Tiger Quest.</em> When I first began, there was less than an hour’s worth of wild Siberian tiger footage in the world, but twenty years later, I’ve amassed close to one thousand hours of footage. The observations I’ve made with my own eyes are three or four times the length of my recordings.</p>

    <p class="ind">Blending into nature and staking out for long periods are no small undertakings. When I’m confined to an underground bunker in the wild, I have to take care of everything in that space: go to the bathroom, melt frozen rice balls for meals, and brave the cold Siberian winds. After six months of not being able to shower, shout, or turn on the light, I begin to identify with prisoners in solitary confinement.</p>

    <p class="ind">When a tiger appears after an interminable wait, it’s as if I’m seeing the face of a lover I’ve been dreaming of. My heart races as I’m overwhelmed with joy, and time stretches on like eternity in those few brief seconds. Then, suddenly, joy is replaced by terror. The tiger notices something is out of place and heads straight toward me, its eyes burning blue in the dark. Footsteps approach, snow crunching under the tiger’s paws. The sound stops. I feel the tiger’s hot breath on my face. The fragile pendulum of existence swings between life and death before my eyes.</p>

    <p class="ind">But in the end, it isn’t the fear of my physical reality in the wild—the cold, the beasts—but an absolute sense of aloneness that freezes me to the bone in the bunker. As I tremble in the two-square-meter space like someone having an attack of claustrophobia, I realize that, unlike tigers, humans are a species meant to live alongside others.</p>

    <p class="ind">There are five species of tigers on our planet: the Siberian tiger, the Bengal tiger, the Indochinese tiger, the Sumatran tiger, and the South China tiger. All except the Siberian tiger live in tropical regions. The Siberian tiger lives in Ussuri, Manchuria, and the Korean Peninsula. Russians call it the Amur tiger, and the Chinese call it the Northeast tiger (as opposed to the South China tiger). They’re Manchurian tigers when spotted in Manchuria, Ussuri tigers when spotted in Ussuri, and Korean tigers when spotted in the Korean Peninsula, but they all belong to the same subspecies known as <em>Panthera tigris altaica.</em></p>

    <p class="ind">Siberian tigers are very reclusive compared to their tropical counterparts; they avoid contact with humans at all costs and live secretive lives in vast mountain ranges. Chancing upon a tiger in the woods is like finding a needle in a haystack. The luckiest tiger researchers get to see wild tigers maybe once or twice in their entire careers. It’s no surprise, therefore, that a great part of the Siberian tiger’s behavior remains a mystery. Next to nothing is known about how tiger families are formed and dissolved, such as the behavior of females with cubs or the relationships between males and cubs. But when we do happen to see Siberian tigers in the wild, their talent for hiding, their wisdom to gauge the situation and know when to back off, and their bravery to fight to the end when they must are wondrous to observe.</p>

    <p class="ind">Ussuri is also inhabited by indigenous peoples who worship the Siberian tiger. They believe that all life forms of the forest, water, and earth have spirits. Their god of the forest is Amba, or “the strongest one,” whose physical form is the Siberian tiger.</p>

    <p class="ind">The forests of Ussuri, Manchuria, and the Korean Peninsula have long been the backdrop for both humans’ and tigers’ difficult fight for survival. This wilderness is becoming increasingly inhospitable due to logging, development, extreme weather, and poaching. Rifles have replaced spears, booby traps have replaced rifles, and landmines are emerging as the next poaching weapon.</p>

    <p class="ind">Once referred to as the “Amazon of Northeast Asia,” the Ussuri forest is now poachers’ heaven. Dozens of the 350 remaining Siberian tigers disappear from the planet each year. This species, considered in the past to be the bravest and most sacred on earth, is walking down an irreversible path to extinction at the hands of mankind. The once-thriving Siberian tiger population of 10,000 is now reduced to 350. The population of indigenous Ussuri has also been reduced from several hundred thousand to a mere ten thousand who continue the lonely fight to keep their culture alive.</p>

    <p class="ind">This book is a record of three generations of tigers—a female tiger named Bloody Mary, her cubs, and her cubs’ cubs. It is also the story of the native Ussuri who worship Siberian tigers. I hope this book does what little it can to shed light on Siberian tigers and the struggles of the native Ussuri and give them all a better chance at survival.</p>
 
</body>
</html>